+++++

A BEAUTIFUL LITTLE FILM

2017-08-23

Were you aware that, in 1996, cocreator of South Park Trey Parker directed a film called For Goodness Sake on the subject of race in American life? Dennis Prager and Larry Elder host, and, though it’s rough around the edges, many of the vignettes – remember, this film was made when noted American Aboriginal Elizabeth Warren was still teaching Bankruptcy at Harvard Law School – are bitingly true today.

Watching this, and reading the comments on YouTube and in various places where it has been posted, suggests that the video resounds with what most people normal people believe about the left’s identity politics: that they represent a poisonous pill. Worth watching !



 
Here individuals of all nations are melted into a new race of men, whose labours and posterity will one day cause great changes in the world. J. Hector St. John de Crèvecoeur,
Letters from an American Farmer, 1782

You might also read Roger Kimball, typically excellent on this subject or, if I may borrow from a source of Roger’s, Gertrude Himmelfarb, who in The Roads to Modernity: The British, French, and American Enlightenments (2004), tells this story from the presidency of Jefferson, who is famously known as having said “[i]t does me no injury for my neighbor to say there are twenty gods or no god. It neither picks my pocket nor breaks my leg.”

As Himmelfarb puts it:

On his way to church one Sunday, Jefferson was met by a friend.

“You going to church Mr. J. You do not believe a word in it.”

“Sir [Jefferson replied], no nation has ever yet existed or been governed without religion. Nor can be. The Christian religion is the best religion that has been given to man and I as chief Magistrate of this nation am bound to give it the sanction of my example. Good morning Sir.”

&&&&&

+++++

JOIN THE NATIONAL CIVIC ART SOCIETY FOR A CLASSICAL TOUR OF WASHINGTON, D.C.

2017-05-19

In my spare time, I serve on the volunteer Board of the National Civic Art Society, an excellent organization headquartered in Washington, D.C. and focused on enforcing aesthetic standards in public architecture. Readers won’t be surprised to learn that the federal government lavishes tens of millions on “starchitects” of low taste and great fame on the global capital cocktail circuit.

This summer, the Society is going to run a series of architectural tours of Washington –– a city which is, architecturally speaking, halfway between heaven and hell –– with noted historian and architect Michael Curtis, whose book on the architecture of Washington will be published in November this year by The History Press. The tours are essentially free, although you do need to plump $10 to reserve your spot.

As the NCAS puts it:

These tours are fashioned for those who wish a greater under- standing of why and how the District of Columbia came to be a classically designed city. You will learn of the ancient antecedents of our political philosophies, of the stylistic precedents of our architectural forms, and of the Founders’ classical vision.

The roster of those tours and the schedule for the entire series of the Society’s “Our Classical Heritage” tours can be viewed here, where you can make a reservation. Here are the tours available:

June 3 – Washington, the Classical City
June 10 – National, Political, and Personal Liberty
June 17 – Freedom and Sacrifice
June 24 – Brutal Mistakes
July 8 – British America

Needless to say, if you or your family will be in the federal city during this time, these are highly recommended to Power Line readers.


&&&&&