+++++

New York Truck Attack Suspect Was Arrested In Missouri Last Year

2017-11-01

Details regarding Sayfullo Habibullaevic Saipov, the 29-year-old suspect in yesterday’s terror attack in New York City, are still emerging.

Brandon Morse has the latest updates regarding the attack here.  Early reports indicate he resided in Tampa, Florida, for much of his time in the United States, but recently moved to Paterson, New Jersey.  The Home Depot store from which he allegedly rented the truck used in the attack is located in close by Passaic, New Jersey.

But his travels weren’t confined to Florida and New Jersey. Saipov was a commercial truck driver which, presumably, is how he came to receive a ticket at a weigh station in Platte County, Missouri, in December 2015. The citation was issued for Failure to Equip a Motor Carrier Vehicle With/Maintain Required Brake System, a Class B Misdemeanor in Missouri.

Rather than address the ticket, Saipov apparently failed to appear for his April 5, 2016, court date and a warrant was issued. The warrant was served on him in St. Charles County, Missouri, on October 21, 2016, though the court records don’t indicate the circumstances surrounding the service.

He was arrested by the St. Charles County Sheriff’s Department at that time and posted a $200 bond. On November 29, 2016, Saipov failed to appear for his court date, a guilty plea was entered, and the bond was applied to his fine and court costs. The docket sheet from his guilty plea can be reviewed here: Saipov

Per the Kansas City Star, this was not Saipov’s only traffic-related brush with law enforcement:

According to court records, Saipov also was cited in Pennsylvania in August 2012 and March 2015. Records show he pleaded guilty to exceeding the maximum length for a trailer and to operating with unsafe equipment in April 2015.

In 2012, he was charged with failing to comply with license restrictions. That charge was withdrawn after Saipov pleaded guilty to operating a motor carrier vehicle in violation of driver out-of-service standards.
Ticky-tack stuff, frankly. Still, rather unsettling to know he was out there on the roads in a commercial vehicle.

&&&&&

+++++

BREAKING: Verdict Announced In Stockley Murder Trial

2017-09-15

Local news stations are reporting that St. Louis Circuit Court Judge Timothy Wilson has rendered a “Not Guilty” verdict in the Jason Stockley murder trial, which I discussed here yesterday. The Judge issued a 30-page ruling, a copy of which can be read here.  Al Watkins, the attorney for Anthony Lamar Smith’s fiancee, acknowledged Judge Wilson’s professionalism but said he finds the ruling “appalling….The family is sorely disappointed. The community will be appropriately sorely disappointed.”

Multiple law enforcement agencies are present in and around the St. Louis area.  Helicopters can be heard over the downtown area.  There are already people gathering, marching arm-in-arm on Market Street in downtown St. Louis, near the courthouse.

The Courts and several local schools are closed today as a precaution in light of anticipated unrest. Some downtown offices were prepared to close early, anticipating the verdict would be announced this afternoon.

We’ll update with any further developments.

&&&&&

+++++

BREAKING: SCOTUS Rules On Trinity Lutheran Case

2017-06-26

The Supreme Court issued three opinions this morning, one of which was the much-anticipated Trinity Lutheran case, which involved the question of whether Missouri’s exclusion of a church preschool from its program which provides grants to non-profits for playground resurfacing violated the Free Exercise Clause.

In a 7-2 ruling, (Justices Sotomayor and Ginsburg dissented), the Court ruled in favor of Trinity Lutheran, holding that the Department of Natural Resource’s policy violated the rights of Trinity Lutheran under the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment by denying the Church an otherwise available public benefit on account of its religious status.


&&&&&

+++++

My Father’s Daughter

2017-06-18

I wrote this for my Dad on Father’s Day six years ago:

Earlier today, a friend suggested I be sure to let my Dad know how much of an influence he’s had on me. My immediate reaction was one of, “Well, duh!” But then I realized this is not something I do nearly often enough.  My Dad’s not the sort of guy who’s particularly comfortable with the expression of emotions — especially not the mushy sort.  I, in turn, have gotten in the habit of not expressing them to him.  And it’s kind of a shame.  Because my Dad truly is one of the best men I know. 

He didn’t necessarily have what I’d refer to as an easy childhood, (though if I were to bring that up to him, he’d likely dismiss it.) Still, he did well in school, and followed up college with law school. This, in turn, was followed by a two year stint in the Army.  If memory serves correctly, he graduated from law school, married my Mom, and headed off to basic training, all within a two week period in July of 1956. He has steadfastly supported my Mom and our family ever since. 

The memories I have of my Dad from my childhood are of a man who made up silly rhymes and songs and sang them to me. Who made a point to lift me up off my feet whenever we stepped over a curb. Who happily put my stuffed skunk (“Skunkie” — go figure) on the steering wheel of his car and let him “drive”.  Who took me with him to put up campaign signs for various political candidates, and instilled in me early on a keen interest in all things political.

Later, as I became a snotty teenager, our relationship became a bit strained. I know I was no peach to live with, and Dad, I think, always felt at a bit of a loss as to how to interact with me once I was no longer a little girl who giggled at his silliness. Still, he endured my adolescence without throttling me, and even had me come work for him in his law office the summer I was 15.  (All my friends were already 16 and gainfully employed.)  You might think that stint is what inspired my later decision to become a lawyer myself, but mostly, I answered the phones and read romance novels that summer, so I can’t rightly say that it was.

There’s no denying, however, that his career choice influenced my own. I don’t know that I consciously thought of it that way when I chose to follow in his footsteps.  But I do know that within me has always been the desire to make him proud.  I know that I am certainly proud of him. He’s worked hard all his life. He’s been a good husband to my Mom. He’s been a die hard Tiger fan and alum. He’s always been active in politics and, though our philosophies no longer align, I greatly respect his dedication to his beliefs.  He’s not only attended the same church for almost 50 years, he’s given countless hours of his time to it, serving in multiple capacities.  He’s turning 78 in a month and still goes out for a 3 mile jog (or, as he calls it, “chog”) on a regular basis.

One thing that’s meant so much to me over the years is how very many times when I’ve encountered someone who knows my Dad, the first thing they’ve said is, “He is the nicest man.”  It’s true. My Dad is nice.  He is kind.  He is a gentle man and a gentleman. And though he may not verbalize it well or often, I have no doubt that he loves me.  He has always been there for me, whether it was helping me find a job, or picking up my daughter on short notice, or helping me wrestle a lawnmower.  I’m sure that there are times he doesn’t quite know what to make of me, but he never wavers in his support of me.  And I am so very lucky to have him as a father. 

Love you, Dad.  Happy Father’s Day.
All of it still holds true, except that Dad is now closing in on 84. There have been some challenges health-wise in the intervening years – a couple spills, a pacemaker, the early stages of Alzheimer’s – and he doesn’t go out for his “chogs” anymore, but Dad’s still shuffling along and I’m happy to get to celebrate Father’s Day with him today.

There’s a song that always reminds me of him, even though the particulars of the story differ from ours:

I thank you for the music and your stories of the road
I thank you for the freedom when it came my time to go
I thank you for the kindness and the times when you got tough
And papa, I don’t think I said I love you near enough
For my Dad and me, it wasn’t music – though his mother was an accomplished pianist and his grandfather, a cellist, Dad’s musical showcasing generally consisted of singing while in the shower. Loudly. It wasn’t even the law, though we obviously have that in common.
Oddly enough, it was politics. My earlier piece alluded to it, but some of my earliest memories of my Dad involve campaigning and political events. Shoot, politics even figure into my birth: He had just returned home from the Democratic Convention in Chicago in 1968 when he had to take my Mom to the hospital to have me. I recall being maybe 3 years old and attending a lunch with Senator Stuart Symington, only in my little-kid mind, I conflated “Symington” with “Washington,” and so, for a long time, was convinced I’d dined with the father of our country.  Dad’s law school roommate was Congressman Ike Skelton, who was kind enough when we visited DC in the summer of 1982 to take me down onto the Floor of the House with him and cast a vote for him.  I don’t recall a single election growing up when we didn’t have someone’s campaign signs in our yard. Point being, my Dad’s interest and participation the political world instilled in me a love and appreciation of it, as well. It’s the primary reason I majored in political science, and why I continue to follow politics so closely today, even when it’s beyond frustrating.
So why bring it up in this Father’s Day tribute? Well, first, as noted above, for my Dad and me, politics has been our “thing.” Second, and more importantly, my Dad is one of the primary reasons I’m able to write a piece like Otherization Nation and know, despite significant pushback from those who are jaded and/or pugnacious, that hating people for their politics isn’t the answer.
My Dad is a diehard Democrat; his best friend of 60 years (and my godfather)? A diehard Republican. And yet they (and their wives) go out to dinner most every Saturday night, were bridge partners (or opponents) for years, celebrated numerous holidays and family events together. They may not have always appreciated one another’s political views, but they didn’t let that overshadow their friendship. My maternal Grandmother was a Republican, too. That never interfered with my Dad being a supportive and loving son-in-law to her, nor did it diminish her fondness for him.
My political views are obviously quite different from my Dad’s (and most of my family’s.) And yet, my core values are his: Love of country, appreciation for the principles upon which it was founded, devotion to family, Protestant work ethic, compassion for those less fortunate, treating others with kindness and respect (I do try, but know I fall short at times), standing up for what you believe in. He and I are hardly unique. These are values held by millions, regardless of their political persuasion. Are they shared by everyone? Of course not. But we’ve seemingly forgotten how to look for those values we do share in those who play for the opposite “team.” My Dad is a constant reminder to me of the importance of doing so. Hopefully, he realizes he’s taught his daughter well.
The leader of the band is tired and his eyes are growing old
But his blood runs through my instrument and his song is in my soul
My life has been a poor attempt to imitate the man
I’m just a living legacy to the leader of the band
I am a living legacy to the leader of the band


&&&&&

+++++

The Scandalizing Pants Of The FNC Sisterhood

2017-06-16

When I saw a friend comment yesterday on reports that Fox News Channel’s Ainsley Earhardt had caused a stir by wearing a pantsuit on air, my first reaction was a good old-fashioned eye roll. While Fox is notorious for featuring fetching female anchors and commentators — not to mention the “leg chair” — it’s still a bit difficult to believe that this actually is a thing in 2017.

But a quick trip through the Googles revealed that — sure enough — the story is making the rounds via various media outlets. Granted, FNC’s competitors have a vested interest in dishing some dirt, but there appears to be some truth to the rumors.

While Fox News has repeatedly insisted that it has never had a formal policy banning female reporters from wearing pants, Gretchen Carlson once told a radio show that she wasn’t allowed to wear them while hosting Fox and Friends. And earlier this year, former Fox personality Jedediah Bila told the hosts of The View that she “wasn’t given a pants option” during her time at the network.
It reminded me a bit of the time I created a “scandal” of my own at my law firm. I was a relatively new associate, and after a frustrating winter morning trudging to the courthouse through snow and slush in a skirt and heels, during which time the male associate with whom I was making the trek made an off-hand comment about the benefits of being able to wear pants, I decided there was no reason I shouldn’t be able to, as well. There certainly was no written rule prohibiting it, though that was clearly the unspoken expectation. Which made me all the more determined to test it.

Unfortunately, at that time, the selection of pantsuits available for women wasn’t all that great. Still, I found a three-piece number I thought was cute. (It was brown plaid wool, with brown velvet lapels and accents, and came with a vest; I’m not so certain in retrospect that it was all that fashionable, but at the time, I felt confident in my sartorial splendor.) The first time I wore it, it definitely caused a stir. No one said anything overtly, other than fellow female associates expressing surprise and envy that I was “getting away with it.” But I caught wind of the whispers and clucking and got the double-take/arched eyebrow from several of the more senior attorneys, including one, in particular, who made a point to walk by my office several times and survey this mutiny. (Her office was on a completely different floor, and she was never before – or since – in my neck of the woods.)

Of course, I wasn’t reprimanded – how could I be? Lawyers generally aren’t stupid. (Save it.) And after that, pantsuits became a regular thing for the women at my firm. But at the time, it did strike me as a rather silly that this was still a thing. Have I mentioned that this was 1994?

Now here we are in 2017, and — at least in some arenas — it apparently is still…a thing. Per the Daily Mail:

Although Earhardt wasn’t a complete stranger to wearing pants on the station, the reaction online was immediate – and not entirely positive.

‘Please don’t dress like Hillary,’ wrote Dennis Emken. ‘Pant suits are not your thing.’

‘Jimfrompa’ was even more upset. ‘Pants?’ he fretted. ‘C’mon, Ainsley! Geez!’

SouthernMom complained: ‘Much prefer Ainsley in dresses. Not a fan of the Green pantsuit.’

And Thomas McGraw seemed to get at the heart of a great many complaints online.

He simply wrote: ‘You covered up your pretty legs.’
Honestly, friends, Hillary didn’t prompt or popularize the pantsuit trend. They’re stylish and practical and a pretty standard part of most professional women’s wardrobes. There’s not a thing wrong with a dress or skirt — if that’s what a gal chooses to wear — but they shouldn’t be mandatory.  If your primary reason for watching a show is to see some leg, there are plenty of options beyond cable news. It’s nice to see Fox moving beyond this unwritten rule.



&&&&&

+++++

SCOTUS Overturns 9th Circuit 8-0

2017-05-30

Believe it or not, the Supreme Court doesn’t always split along ideological lines.  Take, for instance, today’s Opinion in the case of County of Los Angeles v. Mendez.  The Court vacated and remanded the case after holding that the Fourth Amendment provides no basis for the Ninth Circuit’s “provocation rule.”

Justice Alito authored the opinion, in which all other Justices, except Gorsuch, joined. (It’s not unfair to assume Gorsuch would have joined, as well, had he participated in the argument and consideration of the case.  He did get billing in this decision, also published today.) The case involved three Fourth Amendment claims by Angel Mendez and Jennifer Garcia: a warrantless entry claim; a knock-and-announce claim; and an excessive force claim. Mendez and Garcia were sleeping inside a shack in the back yard of a property being searched by the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department. Two deputies searching the rear of the property opened the door of the shack sans warrant or announcing their presence. Mendez greeted them with a BB gun and the officers responded with multiple shots which wounded Mendez and Garcia.

The District Court found in favor of Mendez and Garcia on the warrantless entry and knock-and-announce claims and then, on the excessive force claim, found the deputies’ use of force reasonable under the Supreme Court case of Graham v. Connor, but employed the “provocation rule” crafted by the Ninth Circuit to find the officers liable for excessive force, as well. Without getting too far into the weeds, the “provocation rule” provides that an otherwise reasonable use of force by an officer becomes unreasonable if 1) the officer “intentionally or recklessly provokes a violent confrontation” and 2) “the provocation is an independent Fourth Amendment violation.”

The Supreme Court begged to differ, noting that the provocation rule “is an unwarranted and illogical expansion of Graham.”  The Ninth Circuit is somewhat notorious for being reversed by SCOTUS, but this ruling addressing the appellate court’s inappropriate expansion of Supreme Court precedent caught my attention in light of speculation as to what the Court will do with the Trump Administration’s travel ban.

That is, assuming the Court actually agrees to hear the matter.  In the travel ban litigation, most expect the Ninth Circuit will, like the Fourth Circuit, find the ban unconstitutional.  If that happens, there will not be a circuit split and, as Ilya Shapiro mused last night, that might mean SCOTUS declines to take it up:

While that would certainly come as a disappointment to many, it wouldn’t necessarily be out of character for the Court.  Just today, it declined to act on several “hot button” cases, including a major gun-rights case out of California, a Fourth Amendment challenge to the government obtaining historical cell-phone location records without a warrant, and a First Amendment challenge by the Colorado baker who objected to create a cake for a same-sex wedding ceremony. Stay tuned!

&&&&&



