+++++

Trump Tax Plan Might Get Rid Of Electric Vehicle Tax Break

2017-11-31

What is interesting in this is that so many outlets were reporting that the tax break might go away with the GOP tax plan. While they were all guessing, since they didn’t wait for the plan to be released (some were still guessing after it was released), few published anything that said “yeah, it’s going away.” The USA Today is part of the latter

The House Republican tax plan would ax the tax credit for electric-vehicle buyers, dealing a blow to the ambitions of Tesla and other battery-car makers as they try to give the nascent technology mainstream appeal.

The tax overhaul proposed Thursday would eliminate the tax credit of up to $7,500 that’s currently offered to buyers of vehicles such as the Tesla Model 3, Chevrolet Bolt and Nissan Leaf.

The tax credit is viewed as crucial to propelling technology that’s currently more expensive than comparable internal combustion engine cars.

Proponents of eliminating the incentive say the government shouldn’t pick one technology over another, or should cut most tax credits to simplify the overall code and lower rates.

I thought Liberals hated tax breaks and “loopholes”. No? Realistically, there should be no tax break. People who buy gas vehicles that get great gas mileage do not get them. People who buy minivans to haul around their children do not get them. Why should EVs get them? Especially since many, like the Teslas, are really for people of wealth. Your average middle class person is not going to be purchasing a vehicle costing over $100,000.

And they do not always equate to a savings of $7500. They will often be much less. Furthermore, if you lease the vehicle, which many do, the money goes to the manufacturer, not the consumer. Also, the credit is based on the battery pack capacity. For instance, if you buy a Toyota Prius EV, it only qualifies for a $4,502 federal tax credit.

As for the rest of the plan? Well, there are some winners and losers. Businesses, both large and small, are winners, which is generally a good thing, because people work for them, and tend to win. The reduction of the corporate tax rate is a the biggest aspect of the bill. It will supposedly allow citizens to file their taxes on a postcard (really, just one page). And other things. Obviously, Democrats are trotting out their same old talking points, because they have nothing else, and have no actual ideas they’re willing to put forth. But, really, this bill is small ball. It will supposedly save the average family a bit over $1100 a year. Hey, we can all use a bit more of the money we earned to stay in our pockets, right? But, it’s small ball. Sure, small ball works. Get ’em on, get ’em over, get ’em in (didn’t work well for my Dodgers in game 7, since their 2-5 hitters weren’t). This bill doesn’t really swing for the bleachers.

&&&&&

+++++

GOP Launches Multiple Investigations Of Hillary Clinton

2017-10-30

Will anything come of this? Other than highlighting that Hillary (and Bill) are extremely shady people who used their influence and public offices for graft for their own enrichment, probably not. First, the GOP doesn’t seem to have the cajones to take any investigation further (hence the call for a separate special counsel), and, 2nd, there’s probably just enough separation for Hillary (and Bill) to avoid prosecution, just enough doubt in the documents

(The Hill) It’s almost been a year since the 2016 presidential election, but Republicans are putting the spotlight back on a familiar political foil: Hillary Clinton.

On Tuesday, top House Republicans launched a pair of investigations. The Judiciary and Oversight and Government Reform committees will jointly investigate the FBI’s probe into Clinton’s handling of classified documents. Meanwhile, the latter committee with the Intelligence committee will jointly probe the sale of a uranium company to a Russian firm when Clinton was secretary of State.

The seemingly coordinated investigations — which were announced within a half-hour of each other — is sure to fire up the conservative base and infuriate Democrats who want House investigators to more rigorously probe Russian efforts to meddle in the 2016 election in favor of Donald Trump.

Well, now, that’s not written in a somewhat subtly biased manner, is it? Regardless, the Uranium One investigation itself isn’t focuses exclusively on Hillary, but on the deal overall. As for her handling of classified documents, well, when a 2nd report showed that FBI Director Comey decided not to recommend charges well before the conclusion of the investigation, and new documents come out about the tarmac meeting between Bill Clinton and Loretta Lynch, more investigation is needed. Democrats and some squishy Republicans think this is old news. Well, a lot of what Weistein did was old news, as well. Things that happened decades ago. One would think that corruption, taking bribes, soliciting bribes, using the office for personal gain, and careless handling of classified material would be worth a look to try and keep government honest.

In related news to the “scandal free Obama administration”, there is apparently a smoking gun memo regarding the Eric Holder DOJ that reveals that they intentionally blocked Conservative groups from being awarded settlement payouts that were not denied to Liberal groups, which was an abuse of power, and the funds, long suspected, were being used as a government slush fund to supporting groups.

Also, the Hillary campaign and the DNC are definitively linked to the uttely-discredited Trump dossier created by Fusion GPS.

And, the Obama era unmasking of Americans, particularly those linked to Trump, and having information leaked to friendly media (violation of National Security Act), will go a step further with the testimony of Ben Rhodes. We’ll see if he pleads the 5th.

&&&&&

+++++

Washington Post: Trump Shouldn’t Make A Mess Of Iraq And Syria Like Obama Did

2017-10-15

This is a very interesting notion from the Washington Post Editorial Board, in that they are finally letting its readership know that Obama made a real mess of Syria and Iraq. Now that he’s out of office, of course. But, there is certainly an ulterior motive, in that they want to establish a way to Bash Trump on Iraq and Syria, creating a situation where they can forget about the “inherited problem” meme they allowed Obama to get away with for his first four years in office, and even pushing it themselves.

Trump shouldn’t repeat Obama’s mistake in Iraq and Syria

THE FINAL capture of the Islamic State’s de facto capital of Raqqa thisweek by U.S.-backed Syrian forces brings the would-be caliphate to the brink of extinction: It has lost 87 percent of the territory it once controlled in Iraq and Syria and probably will soon be driven from the rest. But the terrorists’ defeat raises complex challenges for the United States in Iraq and Syria, where Iran and Russia are entrenching their forces and consolidating influence at the expense of U.S. allies. If there is a countering American strategy, it isn’t evident.

The next four paragraphs spend time highlighting the continuing intrusion of Russia backed Iran and Russia in Iraq and Syria, while also mentioning that Trump doesn’t like the Iran nuclear deal. Several times. They rather forget that said deal sent over a billion dollars to Iran, and has increased Iran’s treasury through the lifting of sanction, particularly by the European nations. Which they can put into anti-US and anti-Israel activities, along with expanding their actions in Syria and Iraq.

The Post ends thusly

Mr. Trump may believe he can extract the United States from Iraq and Syria without harming strategic interests. If so, he is repeating the mistake of President Barack Obama. A failure by the United States to defend its allies or promote new political arrangements for the two Arab states will lead only to more war, the rise of new terrorist threats and, ultimately, the necessity of more U.S. intervention.

There’s several levels to this. First, it explicitly acknowledges that Obama’s policies were disasters. Syria was already in the Russian/Iranian sphere of influence and support, but O’s “leading from behind”, his dithering, his stupid red lines, and so forth emboldened Iran and Russia. Not too mention his incompetence when it came to Libya and Crime (and let’s not forget that the WPEB forgets to say that Trump shouldn’t make O’s mistakes like with those two nations).

Second, part of Obama’s mistake was not using force when force was required. When we read things like “a failure by the United States to defend its allies”, that sure as hell looks like it is expression a belief that Trump should use force now to avoid more war later.

Will the Post defend Trump if he uses American force in the region? Obviously, that’s a silly question, in that they would then blast Trump for something like “neo-con intervention” or whatever talking point emerges. Realistically, Trump doesn’t have a lot of space to maneuver, due to the poor situation Obama left behind.

&&&&&



