+++++

Former Bosnian Croat Official On Trial For War Crimes Dies After Drinking Poison In Court

2017-11-29

Appeals judges upheld his 20-year sentence for war crimes against Bosnian Muslims during the war in the Balkans in the 1990s, prompting Praljak to stand up and address the court in The Hague, Netherlands.

“Judges, Slobodan Praljak is not a war criminal,” he said. “With disdain, I reject this verdict.”

He then drank from what appeared to be a small vial, ignoring calls from the judge to sit down.

“I have taken poison,” he said, according to a court translator.

The judge suspended the hearing and Praljak was brought in for treatment, according to Reuters. He reportedly died in a hospital in The Hague.

Praljak was a former assistant minister of defense of Croatia, and later commander of the main staff of the former Croatian Defense Council, a militia operating in Bosnia. He was originally sentenced to 20 years in jail in 2013.

The Yugoslavia tribunal, created in 1993 by the United Nations Security Council, has prosecuted hundreds of people for war crimes and is scheduled to shut down at the end of this year.

The Yugoslav army targeted Bosnian Muslims and Croats in a brutal conflict that killed more than 100,000 people. The ICTY has played an integral role in shedding light on some of these atrocities, including the 1995 genocide in the town of Srebrenica and the use of rape as a weapon of war.

Gen. Ratko Mladic, known as the “Butcher of Bosnia,” was convicted last week of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity, and given a life sentence. “Everything that you have said is pure lies,” he yelled in response. “Shame on you.”

Slobodan Milosevic, the former Serbian leader, died of a heart attack in his jail cell in 2006, while his own ICTY trial was underway.

CORRECTION: An earlier version of this article referred to Praljak as a Bosnian general. In fact, he was a Bosnian Croat commander with a militia operating in Bosnia.

&&&&&

+++++

Far-Right Journalist Arrested After Appearing To Grab Woman During Campus Event

2017-11-29

A controversial far-right reporter was arrested Tuesday night following an altercation at a University of Connecticut event where he was speaking, a university spokesperson said.

Lucian Wintrich, 29, the White House correspondent for the conservative website The Gateway Pundit, had been giving a speech advertised as “It Is OK To Be White” when a woman approached his lectern and took some papers off of it. 

Video from the scene shows Wintrich chasing after the woman and grabbing her in what appeared to be attempt to snatch the papers back. Campus police quickly stepped in and escorted him out of the room. He was then taken into custody and charged with breach of the peace before being released on an $1000 bond, the university spokesperson said. Photos show a crowd of protesters following the police car that took him away. 

Meanwhile, chaos ensued in the lecture hall where Wintrich had been speaking. Someone broke one of the lecture hall’s windows and threw a smoke bomb into the room as attendees were clearing out, a university spokesperson said. Police arrested UConn student Sean Miller, 19, in connection with the broken window. He was later released.

Wintrich defended his actions in a tweet, saying that he should have the right to retrieve stolen belongings. 

Lucian B. Wintrich

@lucianwintrich
Hey Ben - just curious if you think that if someone steals property you don't have the right to retrieve your belongings. Asking for a friend

Lucian B. Wintrich

@lucianwintrich
It's really unfortunate that some of the kids at @UConn felt the need to be violent and disruptive during a speech that focused on how the leftist media is turning Americans against each other. Tonight proved my point.

The UConn College Republicans had invited Wintrich to speak on campus. In the days leading up to the event, students took down or modified posters advertising it. 

Wintrich, who was controversially given White House press credentials earlier this year, has been a vocal supporter of President Donald Trump and a recognizable name in right-wing media. He collaborated with former Breitbart News editor and conservative provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos on “Twinks for Trump,” a photo series of topless men wearing “Make America Great Again” hats. The Gateway Pundit has rivaled Breitbart in both its support of the president and its penchant for spreading hoaxes.

Many students showed up to protest Wintrich’s speech, shouting “Go home Nazis” and “Black Lives Matter” during his remarks.

Liberals “want black people to dress like they did in Africa 300 years ago,” Wintrich said, according to the Hartford Courant. “They want Muslims to dress the way they’ve always dressed. The left wants them to seem like visual advertisers for their multicultural utopia they’re claiming to promote.”

University president Susan Herbst called the incident “very disappointing” in a statement provided to HuffPost. “Thoughtful, civil discourse should be a hallmark of democratic societies and American universities, and this evening fell well short of that.”

Wintrich was scheduled to deliver the same speech at the University of Massachusetts’ Boston campus on Nov. 17, but the school took issue with the title and decided to postpone the event.


&&&&&

+++++

Native American Leaders Slam Trump For ‘Culturally Insensitive’ Pocahontas Remark

2017-11-28

“Pocahontas is a real person, not something that’s just made up,” Navajo Nation President Russell Begaye said.

Native American leaders fired back at President Donald Trump’s reference to Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) as “Pocahontas” by calling the term an “unnecessary” ethnic slur.

Trump, who has identified Warren as “Pocahontas” before, made the remark during a ceremony Monday recognizing Native American code talkers who served during World War II.

“This was a day to honor them and to insert something like that, that belongs on the campaign trail, it doesn’t belong in the room when our war heroes are being honored,” Navajo Nation President Russell Begaye told CNN’s “New Day” on Tuesday. Navajo Nation Council Delegate Amber Kanazbah Crotty on Monday called Trump’s comment “deeply offensive and dangerous.”

Begaye said Trump’s remark was “uncalled for.” When anchor Alisyn Camerota asked whether it amounted to an ethnic slur, he said yes.

“Pocahontas is a real person, not something that’s just made up,” Begaye continued. “This is a young lady, a Native American woman that played a critical role in the life of this nation, and to use that person in that way is unnecessary and is being culturally insensitive.”

Other Native American organizations issued even more strongly worded statements.

The Alliance of Colonial Era Tribes asked Trump on Monday to “stop using our historical people of significance as a racial slur against one of his opponents.”

“The reference is using a historic American Indian figure as a derogatory insult and that’s insulting to all American Indians,” the group’s general secretary, John Norwood, said.

The National Congress of American Indians “cannot and will not stand silent when our Native ancestors, cultures and histories are used in a derogatory manner for political gain,” said its executive director, Jacqueline Pata.


&&&&&

+++++

Pope Francis Just Missed A Huge Opportunity To Advocate For Rohingyas

2017-11-28

He alluded to “justice and respect for human rights” but did not specifically mention the persecuted ethnic minority.

Pope Francis shied away from decrying the atrocities being committed against Myanmar’s Rohingya Muslim community in a key speech during a visit to the country this week.

“The arduous process of peace building and national reconciliation can only advance through a commitment to justice and respect for human rights,” he said on Tuesday, adding that “religious differences need not be a source of division and distrust, but rather a force for unity, forgiveness, tolerance and wise nation building.

Francis spoke after meeting with the country’s de facto leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, who has been criticized for her response to the ethnocentric violence.

In a speech welcoming Francis, Suu Kyi alluded to the issues that have “eroded trust and understanding, harmony and cooperation, between different communities,” but failed to specifically mention the religious minority.

Francis opted for a generic message of unity.

“Unity is always a product of diversity,” Francis told leaders of various faiths in the Burmese city of Yangon earlier on Tuesday. “Everyone has their values, their riches as well as their differences, as each religion has its riches, its traditions, its riches to share. And this can only happen if we live in peace, and peace is constructed in a chorus of differences.”

Francis’ visit comes at a time of great friction in Myanmar, as officials continue to relinquish responsibility for the ethnocentric violence. The latest outbreak began on Aug. 25, when the military launched a crackdown in response to Rohingya terrorist activity.

It has forced more than 620,000 Rohingya Muslims to flee the Rakhine state for neighboring Bangladesh, amounting to what Amnesty International has called “crimes against humanity.” Secretary of State Rex Tillerson accused the military of “ethnic cleansing” last week.

Bangladesh and Myanmar agreed to a repatriation deal last week, although the effective date has yet to be announced.

Whether Francis would even use the term “Rohingya” during his trip was uncertain. The country’s cardinal, Charles Maung Bo, had requested that he refrain from using it, since the Buddhist-majority population refers to them as “Bengalis” who come from Bangladesh.

“This word is very much contested and not acceptable by the military, nor the government, nor the people in Myanmar,” he said earlier this month.

Myanmar’s military leader, Gen. Min Aung Hlaing, met with Francis on Monday and denied overseeing the mass atrocities.

“Myanmar has no religious discrimination at all,” the general said following the meeting. 

Human rights groups, meanwhile, pushed for Francis to address the crisis.

“The pope absolutely should stand up for the Rohingya by using the name Rohingya,” said Phil Robertson, deputy director for Human Rights Watch in Asia. “The Rohingya have little left besides their group name after years of statelessness, discriminatory restrictions on movement and access to life-sustaining services, and being targeted by a military subjecting them to ethnic cleansing and atrocities.”

The Rev. Thomas J. Reese, a commissioner on the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom, warned in advance of the trip that “if [Francis] is silent about the persecution of the Rohingya, he loses moral credibility.”


SUSANA VERA / REUTERS
Myanmar has experienced a rise in anti-Islamic sentiment since 2011, according to an International Crisis Group study published in September.

“The feeling that Islam is especially pernicious ... frustrates Buddhists who believe that their faith has suffered for its tolerance of other religions,” the report says.

Francis has displayed his support for the persecuted minority in the past.

“Sad news has reached us of the persecution of our Rohingya brothers and sisters, a religious minority,” he said during an August radio address. “I would like to express my full closeness to them ― and let all of us ask the Lord to save them.”

Francis will travel to Bangladesh on Thursday, where he plans to meet with a small group of Rohingya refugees in the country’s capital, Dhaka.


&&&&&

+++++

Former Trump Adviser Says He’d Rather See Doug Jones In Office Than ‘Disaster’ Roy Moore

2017-11-27

“I would break with the president on this,” David Urban said.

A former Donald Trump adviser broke with the commander-in-chief by denouncing embattled Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore.

Lobbyist David Urban, who worked on the Trump’s presidential campaign and was floated as a potential replacement for former White House chief of staff Reince Priebus, told CNN on Sunday that Moore’s candidacy is a “loser for the Republican Party.” Referring to Moore’s Democratic opponent, Urban said that “the only thing worse than Doug Jones is Roy Moore.”

Urban is only the latest in a chorus of Republicans who refuse to stand by Moore, a former judge who has been accused of sexual harassing and assaulting multiple women, including minors.

Trump meanwhile reaffirmed his backing of Moore in a series of Sunday tweets lambasting Jones, a former U.S. Attorney best known for prosecuting Ku Klu Klan members.

Donald J. Trump
✔
@realDonaldTrump
The last thing we need in Alabama and the U.S. Senate is a Schumer/Pelosi puppet who is WEAK on Crime, WEAK on the Border, Bad for our Military and our great Vets, Bad for our 2nd Amendment, AND WANTS TO RAISES TAXES TO THE SKY. Jones would be a disaster!

“I would break with the president on this,” Urban told CNN’s “State of the Union” on Sunday. “I think the only thing worse than Doug Jones is Roy Moore.”

Urban dubbed Moore an “anchor around the Republican brand” and a “disaster for the midterms.”

“Republicans will have to distance themselves,” he added. “When you’re explaining, you’re losing. So I think this is a loser for the Republican Party.”

Urban said he thinks the issue could have been solved by postponing the election altogether, but reiterated that he would prefer to see Jones elected over Moore.

“In the long run, Democrat Doug Jones will become Republican Doug Jones,” he said, adding that the candidate could easily become a “likely vote for Republicans” on various issues.

Both Sens. Tim Scott (R-S.C.) and Rob Portman (R-Ohio) were the latest in their party to call upon Moore to step aside over the weekend. Others include Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and Sens. Lindsey Graham (S.C.), Todd Young (Ind.), Susan Collins (Maine) and Thom Tillis (N.C.). 


&&&&&

+++++

Las Vegas Shooter Fired More Than 1,100 Rounds, Police Say

2017-11-24

Authorities still haven’t determined a motive.

Gunman Stephen Paddock fired more than 1,100 rounds of ammunition during his attack on a Las Vegas country music festival last month, authorities said.

Included in this total is about 200 rounds that Paddock fired from his Mandalay Bay hotel room into the hallway, injuring hotel security guard Jesus Campos, Clark County Sheriff Joe Lombardo told the Las Vegas Review-Journal on Wednesday. 

He spent decades amassing a vast weapons arsenal, although more than 30 of his firearms were purchased in the 12 months preceding the shooting.

Fifty-eight people, plus Paddock, were killed in the shooting.

Authorities also found about 4,000 rounds of unused ammunition in the hotel room, Lombardo said. He said that officials have yet to determine a motive.

“I’m frustrated,” Lombardo said of the conspiracy theories about the shooting, adding that the city’s police department is still working with the FBI to process the ballistics evidence. 

Hundreds of victims have filed lawsuits in the wake of the shooting, claiming negligence on the part of MGM Resorts International, which owns the Mandalay Bay hotel, and Live Nation, the group that organized the festival during which the shooting occurred.



&&&&&

