+++++

Free college: Great policy, terrible politics

2017-09-13

Free college makes sense almost any way you slice it. At the individual level, a college degree provides dramatically higher earning potential potential—56 percent higher than that of a high school grad, a record high. At the national level, an educated workforce guarantees global competitiveness in a cutthroat economic environment. Thus, it makes little sense to saddle grads with unsustainable debt. 

However, the logical solution—free college—is terrible politics. 

Many of the proposals Democrats are pushing fall flat in focus groups and polling.

The call for free college tuition fosters both resentment at ivory tower elitism and regret from people who have degrees but are now buried under debt. Many voters see “free” as a lie — either they’ll end up paying for tuition some other way, or worse, they’ll be paying the tuition of someone else who’ll be getting a degree for free.
We know how conservatives are systematically undermining public sentiment against education, with 58 percent of Republicans now saying that colleges and universities have a negative effect on the country. So already, you have a built-in constituency hostile to the idea. In their mind, more people in college just means more liberals. 

But it goes beyond that. What about everyone who is already saddled with student debt? That breeds resentment. What about those who spent decades paying off their student debt? More resentment. What about those who have shitty jobs who think they’re paying for someone else to make more money than them? Loads of resentment!

And then there’s the issue of race and class: wealthy whites from good schools would get free college, and have zero problem affording room-and-board fees. College remains unattainable for many living in disadvantaged communities because of shitty primary and secondary schools, and even free college would be a stretch for many who could not afford living expenses.

In fact, there is one constituency that is drawn to the idea of free college: current and future college goers, aka “young people.” And which is the age demographic least likely to vote? Young people. It’s not even fucking close. 

Chart showing voting rates by age.
And while we may like it, the white working-class voters that would supposedly be attracted to free college for their kids hate it. 

“When Democrats go and talk to working-class voters, we think talking to them about how we can help their children go to college, they have a better life, is great,” said Ali Lapp, executive director of House Majority PAC, which supports Democratic House candidates. “They are not interested. … It’s a problem when you have a growing bloc in the electorate think that college is not good, and they actually disdain folks that go to college.”
The solution? Getting more young people to vote would be a start (if their numbers swamp those of the anti-free-college contingent, it’s a no-brainer—political spoils go to those who participate). And yes, of course it’s a chicken-or-egg problem: young voters won’t vote unless Democrats support it, but Democrats can’t support it (and win) if young people don’t vote. Given historical trends, however, Dems could be forgiven if they focus on more fertile ground than hoping for a youth electoral wave that has never materialized. 

A more immediately realistic step would be to broaden the conversation so it includes debt relief for people already saddled by education debt. Include job training programs beyond college, since those all matter and are important (and there are other paths to a successful, fulfilling, and lucrative life that don’t include college).

Definitely make sure Wall Street pays for it (financial transaction tax!), so people don’t feel that they’re on the hook for paying for someone else’s career advancement. 

This is a rare current issue in which Democrats don’t have mass public support. To make it happen will require broadening the scope of the idea, and getting those most directly impacted to actually spur progress by participating at the ballot box. 


&&&&&

+++++

Boy did I f' up on Twitter

2017-08-28

After that asshole Trump pardoned fellow Nazi Joe Arpaio, I was despondent. Nothing Trump has done affected me so deeply, so viscerally, so I did what everyone should never do, and I lashed out on Twitter.

 Markos Moulitsas ✔@markos
White supremacist presidents will pardon other white supremacists. That's what happens when communities of color don't vote.
7:11 PM - Aug 25, 2017
 4,452 4,452 Replies   998 998 Retweets   2,615 2,615 likes
Twitter Ads info and privacy
The problem was immediately obvious to everyone except me: The way I wrote it, I was blaming people of color for Trump. And of course, that was bullshit. So I want to make very clear: 

I fucked up. I was clumsy. I was a fool.

Trump was elected because of the racist white assholes who voted for him. 

Trump continues to exists because of the racist white Republican Party that enables him. 

There is a debate to be had about how to increase voter participation in marginalized communities. There’s a reason why Republicans work so hard to disenfranchise those potential voters, putting in institutional roadblocks to the franchise. We at Daily Kos (and I, personally) have long focused on those issues. 

There’s also a debate to be had about how Democrats only seem to care about people of color around election time, and then never again. Latinos are still chaffing about the number of deportations during the Obama years. Missouri had a Democratic governor and DA during the Ferguson saga. 

But none of that has direct bearing on one key point—the blame for our white supremacist government is on the white people who voted for Trump 2-1 in 2016, and on the institutions that have willfully been created to prevent marginalized communities from voting. 

Period. 


&&&&&

+++++

Republicans are totalitarians, and they're being more honest about it every day

2017-07-28

We’ve long known that Republicans have little respect for traditional democratic norms and ideals. We’ve seen it in their hostility toward voting rights, their decimation of traditional norms in the House and Senate, their refusal to give D.C. residents a voice in Congress, their obstruction of the Obama agenda despite being in the deep minority, and their worship of big daddy strongmen (like Putin, even before Putin installed a puppet regime in our White House). 

But conservatives used to at least pay lip service to the idea of democracy. Yet the last few weeks have been rough on that facade, as more of the truth comes out every day. Witness:

Mike Huckabee calling for the elimination of an elected Senate, and specifically, the 17th Amendment, which literally has the words “elected by the people” in it. Note, this tweet didn’t emerge from a vacuum. ALEC has been agitating for this for years, and they’re only doubling down on the campaign these days. Ironically, the Senate has a strong natural GOP gerrymander—for example, the Dakotas get four senators to California’s two. But that’s still not enough for a GOP hostile to anything that might get in the way of dictatorial power.
 
According to a YouGov poll, 45 percent of Republicans want the government to “shut down "biased or inaccurate" media outlets” (of course, they’re not talking about Fox News or Breitbart). And 35 percent are undecided about the bedrock U.S. guarantee of freedom of the press. Only 20 percent side with the First Amendment, apparently since everyone else has conveniently lost their pocket Constitution.
Conservatives are literally pining for dictatorship, like Fox host Jesse Waters: “A lot of people wish President Trump was a dictator, maybe we could repeal Obamacare. It would be a lot easier that way.” When Republicans thwarted President Barack Obama, did we sit there and say, “God, I wish he was a dictator!” Of course not, even as Republicans convinced themselves that’s what Obama wanted. They do projection really well. But of course, when it comes to the guy who couldn’t even muster a popular-vote majority, the nation is supposed to bow to the loser. Fuck that. 
 
Conservatives don’t care about Russian interference in our elections. If Hillary Clinton was elected on the back of a massive Russian intelligence operation, I can guarantee you we wouldn’t be shrugging that off here at Daily Kos. But to Republicans, elections aren’t sacrosanct. As one Republican strategist said yesterday, “Republicans don't care about Russia. They do care about [White House] dysfunction.” 
 
Conservatives don’t even want people educated, lest they have proper agency to vote intelligently. 
 
And what does every despot do when he feels his hold on power slipping? He lashes out at an “other” to distract his supporters. For Trump this week, that was his broadside against our transgender servicemembers in the armed forces. And did he consult with the Joint Chiefs of Staff? With the congressional armed services committees? With any real military experts? Of course not! Dictators don’t have to deal with such messy courtesies. 
Republicans and their conservative allies will stop at nothing to threaten their hold on power, and their tactics will only grow more desperate as their ideology continues to fall out of flavor. They held demographic trends at bay during the last cycle with their overt appeals to racism and xenophobia, but even that has its limits in the long term. 

We’ve seen Republicans make a mockery of our democratic norms and ideals, and the reasons why are obvious. They hate democracy. They love Putin-style autocracy. And it’s up to us to make sure that never happens here, in these United States. 


&&&&&

+++++

Newt Gingrich has pro-Trump book coming out. My anti-Trump book is better. Pre-order it today!

2017-06-02

On June 13, Newt Gingrich will release his new shit book about Donald Trump:

UNDERSTANDING TRUMP explains the president's actions so far and lays out a vision for what Americans can do to help make President Trump's agenda a success.
Cover page of The Resistance Handbook: 45 Ways to Fight Donald Trump
My new book, out June 20, but you can pre-order today!
A week later on June 20, a better book will come out. Co-authored with Michael Huttner, founder of ProgressNow (which played a big part in Colorado’s big shift to Blue), The Resistance Handbook: 45 Ways to Fight Trump will come out. 

Guys, I’m super proud of this book. At a time when so many of us are desperate for new ways to resist the popular-vote loser’s regime, we provide hundreds of suggestions, grouped into 45 broad categories. We talk about ways to fight against Trump’s corrosive effect on our culture (bullying, sexism, racism, xenophobia), ways to fight his assault on the policies we care about (racial justice, women’s issues, worker’s rights, immigration, true religious liberties, and so on), and ways to build the electoral infrastructure we so desperately need, and should’ve already had built. We highlight good work being done by our best allies, and encourage people to lead the charge. 

Already, several thousand books have been pre-ordered, and adding to that tally will improve its chances of getting on bestseller lists. This isn’t important for financial reasons. The book is priced so low ($12.99 for paperback, and even cheaper on Amazon) that royalties will be negligible. It’s important because 1) we want this resource in the hands of as many activists around the country as possible, and 2) because I don’t want Gingrich’s stupid book on bestseller lists without there being a Resistance-themed book to counterbalance it. And the more people who see this book exists (and the bestseller lists do that), the more people will buy it and share it, and the more people will do great activism, and the closer we’ll be to our idealized liberal utopia. 

One more thing: The mother of all bestseller lists is the NY Times, and it’s not a real bestseller list. Someone could sell 1 million books, only on the Amazon, and it wouldn’t make the list. That’s why the Bible isn’t on the list. Or the dozens of high-selling religious books that flood the market. It’s “curated,” and largely based on sales at independent bookstores. 

So if you want to order it on Amazon, that’s great! But it would be extra helpful if you called your local bookstore and placed an order with them. 

Sound like a plan? So you can either:

Pre-order on Amazon
Pre-order at your favorite bookstore 
I’ll share more info on the book in the two weeks leading up to release. It’s good. Pre-order! And fuck Newt Gingrich. 

&&&&&

+++++

If you defend Trump, you will get burned. And Republicans (like his latest spokeswoman) love it!

2017-05-12

It’s a story as old as … Donald Trump’s first forays into the Republican primary, and it goes like this: the popular-vote loser lies. His staff and surrogates rise up to defend him. A couple of hours later, Trump changes his story, leaving his defenders high and dry, looking like the fools that they are. 

And of course, we just saw that with the firing of FBI director James Comey. The official explanation was that he was fired for his handling of the Hillary Clinton email investigation. Most people laughed, but his lieutenants and sycophants dutifully rose to defend him. Then, in the middle of their defenses, Trump came out and admitted it was all bullshit, firing Comey to obstruct the investigation into his election collusion with Russia. So how does his spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders explain blatantly lying to the country?

 Matt Viser ✔@mviser
“It’s pretty simple: I hadn’t had a chance to have a conversation directly with the president” — Sanders on why her Comey answer was false.
12:10 PM - May 11, 2017
 120 120 Replies   203 203 Retweets   382 382 likes
Twitter Ads info and privacy
So according to her, everything coming out of her mouth is made-up bullshit if she hasn’t met with the president. So does the press has to ask, “Is your answer made-up bullshit, or have you actually spoken directly with the president?” 

Obviously, this excuse is laughable. This isn’t someone overly concerned with lying on Trump’s behalf, no matter how supposedly Christian her upbringing might’ve been. (Her father is part of the American Taliban.) But it shows, once again, that if you get in bed with Trump, you will get burned. 



&&&&&

+++++

Senate Democrats are ON FIRE! Help support their calls for a special prosecutor

2017-05-10

Popular vote loser Donald Trump is an idiot. If we had to have a Republican president, who better than this raging moron? 

I mean, the day after he blatantly obstructs justice by firing FBI Director James Comey, he decides to hang out with the Russian ambassador in the White House. And then, Trump lets them take pictures of him looking all excited and happy to be hanging out with his masters! 

So not only are Senate Democrats threatening to gum up the works, but they’re using Trump’s own images against him. And while poster props in the congressional chambers often fall flat, the one above scores a direct hit. 

Meanwhile, Republicans continue to stick with Trump because they are also morons, apparently unaware that they’ll eventually get the Trump shiv, just like Comey did yesterday. Trump doesn’t give a shit about anyone or anything, his party included. 

So by obstructing a real investigation into Russian influence, Republicans are now co-conspirators in the (successful) Russian attempt to subvert our democracy. Congrats, morons! But, it’s never too late to do the right thing. Hopefully, with increased Democratic pressure, we’ll get that special prosecutor our nation so obviously deserves. 

Sign the petition: Appoint a special prosecutor NOW!

&&&&&

+++++

If we agree on the issues, why are so many on the left fighting each other?

2017-05-08

As I noted last week, we are an ideologically cohesive party. We have near unanimous agreement in support of income equality, justice for all, a sane immigration policy, and respect for women. Yet we are riven by internal divisions. How can that be? And the answer is simple:

Priorities. 

The hardcore Bernie Sanders dead-enders—the ones who insist on waging jihad against the party and its mainstream liberal adherents—are undying in their belief that income equality can solve all ills. Dubbed “alt-left” on Twitter (quickly replacing “Bernie Bro” as the preferred moniker), this crowd has resorted to using words like “identity politics” and “political correctness” to strike at their mainstream liberal detractors. Yup, they are adopting left-wing critiques right out of the conservative movement’s playbook. 

Several days ago, the Weekly Standard had a thought experiment that is directly on point with our internal battle:

Would you trade aggressive immigration restrictions and enforcement for single-payer healthcare?
The fact that liberals would answer that question differently is exactly why we have our own internal war to fight. And yes, there is a right answer—and a wrong one.

We just saw this dynamic in action. Sanders originally hedged on endorsing Jon Ossoff in the GA-06 special election, saying he wasn’t sure the Democrat was “progressive.” His supporters had Sanders’ back: Ossoff was a corporatist! 

Days later, Sanders enthusiastically embraced Heath Mello in the Omaha mayor’s race. This was okay, despite Mello’s past support for abortion restrictions, because he was fighting for a “big tent” Democratic Party. Suddenly, tolerance that wasn’t brooked for Ossoff was demanded for Mello. Why did some liberals put “identity politics” ahead of winning? Jane Sanders literally tweeted that critics of her husband’s endorsement of Mello were practicing “political correctness”. 

While at first blush this appears like rank hypocrisy, the underlying dynamic is clear: for the alt-left, “big tent” means accepting Democrats that shit on core Democratic groups, or those of us practicing “identity politics”—so long as their core issue of income inequality remains front and center. 

For the rest of us, we can never have a unified movement until the people who make up our base are safe and secure in their daily life. That means:

Women don’t have their pussies grabbed by asshole men. Trump wasn’t going to the unemployment line to grab women’s pussies. And women in the workplace are literally dealing with sexual harassment, assault, and other forms of aggression. Income equality will not fix this. Period. 
Black kids aren’t being murdered by police, treated differently in courts. Sandra Bland had a good job when she was arrested and jailed (and murdered) for being black. Henry Louis Gates had a pretty decent job as a fucking Harvard professor when he was arrested for walking into his own goddam house in Cambridge. Racism cuts deeper than economics.
Latino and Asian families aren’t being torn apart by immigration authorities. The treatment of immigrant communities has little to do with money, and once again, with a toxic mix of racism and xenophobia. 
Muslim and Jewish people aren’t being shot at, their places of worship and holy sites desecrated. Even the schools where their children learn are being targeted by right-wing assholes. 
Mostly white and male Christian or atheist progressives have no fucking idea what it’s like to live with this oppressive daily pressure. They might be a little out of sorts over Trump’s presidency, but they and the people they love will never be specifically targeted the way the groups above will. 

And that’s what “identity politics” is all about—standing with our most marginalized allies, and making sure their immediate safety is protected and guaranteed. Because yes, while everyone wants to see an economically equitable world, that’s a secondary consideration when your children are being murdered, your places of worship are being vandalized, your families are being torn asunder, and your own bodies are being violated. 

And that’s the challenge the white male progressive crowd faces. If it rallies around those powerless communities and uses their privilege to empower their natural allies, we can then make a serious dent on these issues of racism and bigotry. And if those marginalized communities are suddenly not in the margins, they will be natural allies on broader issues of economic equality and climate change.

Or put another way, do white men want women and marginalized communities on their side, or do they really want to turn this into a pissing match over “identity politics” and shit? Because the reality is, those white male progressives are a small minority in our movement. They are about to learn what it’s like to be in the margins of a big political movement. And they have two options ahead of them: 1.) solidify their marginalization on the fringes, or 2.) become a genuine ally in the broader fight—one that will benefit us all in the long run.

Finally, I need to make this one personal point: in the 15 years I’ve run this site, I’ve never made a big deal out of being Latino. That has ended. You are seeing “Latino Kos” loud and proud from here on out, and I will have zero tolerance for asshole borderline racists who pretend to be progressives. If you really want to say  the words “identity politics” in a demeaning way, go the fuck away, or I will make you go away. If you really want to argue that fighting for women’s rights or anti-racism or bigotry is “political correctness,” then go the fuck away. And if you ever say anything, like the one commenter who said about a black contributor, ”I am a recovering racist, but she is challenging my sobriety” (with several recommends, as a bonus!), then understand that my patience will be zero. 

Many of you need to learn and shut up when people from marginalized communities are telling you the pain they are suffering, the fears they face, and the challenges that they must endure. And if you come from a privileged background, you need to take those words at heart, listen, consider, digest, and then figure out how you can constructively be part of that conversation and solution. 

So again, ask yourself: would you trade universal health care for Trump’s glorious wall and enhanced hiring of jackbooted government ICE thugs to raid homes, schools, and workplaces? And if the answer is “yes”—then please, show yourself out the door. 

&&&&&

+++++

If GOP voted for TrumpCare to rally their base, mission not accomplished

2017-05-08

The House’s TrumpCare vote last week has lit a new fire within the liberal base, and it is motivated as hell heading into the 2018 cycle. Our ActBlue page targeting endangered House supporters of TrumpCare is fast approaching $1.5 million. Swing Left also crossed the million dollar mark on Saturday, so they’re likely well above that. Candidates are pouring out of the woodwork, giving Democrats a wealth of options on a dramatically expanded map. As EMILY’s List noted, they talked to 900 potential women candidates during the 2016 cycle. The’ve already crossed the 11,000 mark this year. A massive wave is building, and the House vote this past week supercharged it. So how can Republicans justify voting on a deeply unpopular bill they haven’t read, and without a CBO score? 

Because they needed to energize their base, they say. 

“We have to keep our own base excited because off-year elections are about the base,” said Representative Steve Stivers of Ohio, who oversees the House campaign arm. “We need to show them accomplishments.
That makes sense. The GOP 2010 wave was built on a toxic brew of an energized Tea Party Right, with a liberal base depressed by the lack of single payer or a public option. Republicans would be well-served to avoid that formula. Problem is, there was one way to avoid it, and that was to deliver on their promise—full repeal. What they delivered instead was met with a big, fat, meh.

Lifezette:

The Obamacare repeal package being pushed by Republican leaders in the House of Representatives will eventually lead to a full government takeover of the health care system, a prominent Washington cardiologist predicted Thursday.

Dr. Ramin Oskoui, who also is LifeZette’s health adviser, said on “The Laura Ingraham Show” the Obamacare replacement bill that the House is set to vote on Thursday is fundamentally flawed and will not reduce health care costs.

“They need to go back and start from scratch,” he said. “We’re on our way to single payer, which will be also incredibly inefficient. We’ve seen what happens at the VA.”
Ironically, they are right. The GOP’s ineptitude in handling the repeal effort means that people are more supportive than ever on the idea of government-guaranteed healthcare. In the long-run, they have paved the way toward single-payer.

The National Review:

Now that the House has passed the American Health Care Act, Senate Republicans should work on improving it. 
It sucks, it’s not good enough, and the Senate—where procedural maneuvers and Republicans have only a tiny majority—is supposed to fix it? 

Weekly Standard played it straight. “Bill passes. Now it moves to Senate.” 

Breitbart covered the Democratic reaction to passage, as opposed to celebrating the bill itself. As the New Republic noted, “It seems that, for Breitbart, anger at the Democrats is stronger than any elation at the passage of the bill, which will likely kick millions of people off health insurance.” 

The fury against the GOP at Free Republic was brutal, and boiled down to this:

Republicans have just finally conceded the entire argument against socialized medicine in America. They have officially retreated from the belief that liberty, self-governance and free markets are ultimately the best way to provide the most people with the best health care.

By supporting government-run health care — even if it is a little less government-run than Obamacare — Republicans have, in fact, endorsed government-rationed health care. Remember those evil death panels we used to all be opposed to?

Well, now you are the death panels.
Bottom line, the base was promised repeal. Giving them a shit-sandwich instead isn’t motivating and energizing that base, it’s making them angry. By accepting government involvement in health care, the conservative base is freaked—doesn’t this inevitably lead to single-payer? It may not be inevitable, but chances are dramatically improved. Conservatives definitely have reason to be terrified!

So the best conservative media outlets can do is to point to angry liberals and say, “they hate it, so it can’t be that bad! Aren’t you psyched?” That may or may not work in the long-run. I’ve stopped trying to pretend to understand that crowd. But if the immediate reaction is any indication, Republicans kicked a hornets nest on the Left, without getting any commensurable kudos on the Right. 

And if you’re a Republican senator watching this play out, do you really want to give that hornet’s nest a second kick? 

(The bigger the backlash, the more scared Republican senators will be to play ball. So keep donating to the future Democratic opponents of those asshole Republicans in swing House districts who voted to kill people by taking away their insurance.) 

&&&&&

+++++

The progressive wing of the party won. Now we're fighting over privilege

2017-04-26

One of the frustrating aspects of the current intra-party flareup is the fact that ideologically, we’re pretty much all on the same page. And our side won that ideological battle. 

Minimum wage. See headline today: “Democrats unveil plan for a $15 minimum wage.”
Social Security. Remember when cutting it was all the rage, fueled by Third Way and other deficit scolds on the supposed left? Well, the party platform now proclaims expansion as the official party position: “Democrats will expand Social Security.” And Democrats (led by Elizabeth Warren) have followed along. Even Hillary Clinton, by the way. 
Income inequality. A conservative Wall Street Journal columnist whined: “[T]he platform draft’s core narrative is inequality, the injustice that inequality entails, and the need to rectify it through redistribution.” And aside from a few red state outliers, the core has been adopted party wide. 
The issues that suddenly divide us? Apparently whether we, as a party, will be unyielding in a woman’s right to choose. Taking a page out of the right’s playbook, Jane Sanders called fighting for that right “political correctness.” I see it as core and just as central to who we are as a party as the bullet points above. We’re apparently arguing over whether economic equality would keep immigrant families from being torn apart by immigration authorities (it wouldn’t), or keep African Americans from being shot in the streets and killed in jail cells (it wouldn’t), or keep Donald Trump from grabbing a woman’s pussy (it hasn’t). 

Those aren’t divisions based on an economic debate. The economic debate, internally, is settled. That debate is over those who think it’s the only issue that matters, and women and people of color who know damn well it isn’t. 

Furthermore, there is a shocking inability from some white, mostly male liberals to accept that in our new party, voices of women and people of color are now central to the narrative. That yes, it’s time to cede the stage to a new generation of leadership. In a recent comment thread, I wrote about our need to show “solidarity with the people that matter in our party,” referring to women and people of color. And believe it or not, a bunch of men were triggered. As I responded, “Only a white male would hear the words ‘solidarity with the people that matter in our party,’ and somehow get ‘white men DON’T matter’ out of that.” Yet amazingly, that’s exactly what happened. 

So if we’re on the same ideological page but the battle lines appear to be race- and gender-based, what does that mean? 

It means that while people are pretending that they’re arguing over policy, fact is, that’s a facade to mask a battle over the party’s changing of the guard. Those who have enjoyed the privilege of race, gender, and class are feeling uncomfortable and threatened by those who are ascendant in our coalition. 

Australian Aboriginal activist Lilla Watson summed up one of her people’s proverbs as such:

If you have come here to help me, you are wasting your time.

But if you have come because your liberation is bound up with mine, then let us work together.
As a movement, that’s where we need to be. That’s the point where we’ll be truly a unified, effective, and equitable movement. And that requires we all work together for all of our causes. And if you’re a liberal saying shit like defending a woman’s right to choose is “political correctness,” or uttering the words “identity politics,” then you’re doing it wrong. Very wrong. 

And yes, this comment thread will be a shit show, but consider this a first step in a long conversation. Because we’re doomed as a movement if we don’t get this right. 



&&&&&

+++++

In Yakla, Yemen, someone ordered SEALs to press attack after they lost element of surprise. Who?

2017-02-28

Popular vote loser Donald Trump was happy to take credit for the Yakla, Yemen, raid that cost a Navy SEAL his life, as well as that of more than two dozen civilians (including way too many children). Now, as details continue to emerge, he’s trying to deflect and blame others. He’s Trump, it’s what he does. He cannot fail—he can only be failed. 

In an operation full of failures from planning to execution, there is one question that should be asked above all others. Check this out:

Through a communications intercept, the commandos knew that the mission had been somehow compromised, but pressed on toward their target roughly five miles from where they had been flown into the area. “They kind of knew they were screwed from the beginning,” one former SEAL Team 6 official said.
You got that? The element of surprise was gone. They knew that. They knew they were screwed from the start. And yet … they pressed on. 

Someone made that decision. Someone decided that this SEAL team needed to continue forward, into the maws of a well-prepared enemy. 

And remember: the point of the mission was to capture an al-Qaida leader and gather intelligence. If the team was compromised, it was obvious at that point that their target would be gone and any real intelligence was gone with him, or destroyed. Which is what happened. 

So who decided to send these SEAL teams into a no-win situation when the entire point of the mission had been compromised? It wasn’t Trump. He was too busy doing whatever in his bedroom to care. So who sent Ryan Owens to his death? 



&&&&&

