+++++

Lefties: ‘Nitwit’ John Kelly Is an ‘Odious’ ‘Coward’ Making ‘Bizarre,’ ‘Dishonest,’ Racist Remarks

2017-10-19

In addition to CNN, liberal activists, actors, journalists, and trolls disturbingly berated and maligned the character of John Kelly following his Thursday White House remarks, declaring him to be an “odious” “coward” and “nitwit” offering a “bizarre,” “dishonest,” and racist statement amidst the Gold Star family controversy.

Let’s take the CNNers who weren’t able to participate in the CNN Newsroom berating of Kelly immediately after he left the White House briefing room. 

CNN political commentator Symone Sanders played the race card, insinuating racism in Kelly’s discussion about fallen service members and response to Democratic Congresswoman Frederica Wilson (Fla.) (who incited this discussion to begin with): 



CNN national security correspondent and former Obama administration official Jim Sciutto also displayed his displeasure with Kelly, tweeting: “With due respect, on what basis do Gens Kelly & Mattis criticize the media for asking how & why 4 US soldiers were killed in action?”

Sense a pattern here? That sound you hear is the Obama administration and their friends in the media circling the wagons to attack Kelly and Trump. Former Obama staff and CNN political commentator Keith Boykin jumped in too:



Also on CNN’s payroll is former Clinton campaign flack Brian Fallon, who offered a hot take worthy of burning in fiery pits of hell: 



GQ writer Devin Gordon took more of a line that Sciutto did, being outraged that anyone (let alone a retired Marine Corps general) would criticize the media: 





Arguably the most distasteful tweet came from failed MSNBC host Keith Olbermann (who currently hosts of GQ’s The Resistance. Olbermann noted that Wilson was a family friend of Sgt. La David Johnson, but he refused to stop there, referring to Kelly as a “collaborating, enabling nitwit.” So despicable.

Former Huffington Post personality Lance Gould also put on display the true colors of the far-left, tweeting out a fake quote of Kelly:



Toronto Star journalist and far-left darling Daniel Dale also brought up the relationship between Wilson and the Johnson family but, like Olbermann, he couldn’t end his comments there. 

Instead, he lashed out at Kelly as having offered a “line of argument” that was “so bizarre” and making remarks that were “emotional” but also a “dishonest, probably effective attack on Rep. Wilson.”

Responding to a now-viral video tweet by this author, actress Vivicca A. Whitsett provided an NSFW tirade (who has since been blocked by her): 



Artist Austin Vesely and actor J.D. Evermore did the same: 





And those tweets were only small sampling of the venom out there for an American hero and treasure. Simply because of his political affiliation, Kelly was dragged through the cesspool of American political discourse. 

So, the question that Kelly and so many others have asked in the past few months is this: Is there nothing left that’s sacred?

Well, after Thursday and the instant jump to attack Trump for something neither side has handled (as in the issue of Gold Star families), the answer has proved to be a depressing no.


&&&&&

+++++

CNN’s Jake Tapper Offers Excellent Thread on ‘Media Accountability’ Post-Weinstein Bombshells

2017-10-16

On Saturday, CNN’s The Lead and State of the Union host Jake Tapper offered a timely Twitter thread on the importance of holding media organizations accountable for what they cover and don’t cover, specifically as it related to the Harvey Weinstein scandal taking years to be published.

Tapper began by giving credit where credit is due to The New York Times and The New Yorker for publishing the Weinstein stories that broke the floodgates on the almost countless allegations of rape and sexual assault: 



With that said, Tapper turned his attention to indirectly calling out “members of the media helped cover up his alleged crimes” by “[p]ublishing dirt on victims” and “killing excellent and solid journalism that would have exposed his crimes earlier thus stopping his victimizing new women.”

The CNN anchor didn’t name names, but some of the chief offenders in the media have proven to be The New York Post in the former case with NBC News and The Times itself in the latter, facing another mountain of journalistic malpractice allegations. 

Based on reports from CNN and the Huffington Post, NBC News and its executives reportedly told contributor Ronan Farrow on numerous occasions to stop investigating Weinstein despite having accumulated audio recordings and on-the-record interviews.

As an example of such a blackout by NBC, the Huffington Post story explained that Weinstein was intentionally censored from the October 5 NBC Nightly News under direct orders by NBC News president Noah Oppenheim.

Shifting back to Tapper, he correctly observed that there isn’t a “functioning body that oversees journalism that can demand an accounting for how this happened” with stories smearing Weinstein’s alleged victims and/or covering up his behavior.

Therefore, Tapper argued:







 

He closed by directing attention to outside media reporters (perhaps like the one you’re reading): 





Despite what some partisans may try to argue, Tapper has mostly been a consistent shooter when it comes to asking questions other journalists refuse to, demanding media accountability, and simply covering stories his other colleagues in establishment media ignore. Saturday’s thread only bolstered that reputation.

&&&&&


+++++

Fake News: NBCNews.com Labels Democratic Senator Menendez as a Republican

2017-09-06

On Wednesday, NBCNews.com published an Associated Press dispatch on the bribery trial of Democratic Senator Bob Menendez (N.J.), but there was one huge problem in that Menendez was labeled a Republican. Translation? NBC News saw no reason to engage in basic proofreading or got caught red-handed in the act of liberal bias.

The unauthored post sat for well over two hours before being changed. NBCNews.com offered a correction at the bottom of the story: “CORRECTION (Sept. 6, 2017, 5:35 p.m.): An earlier version of this article misstated the party affiliation of Menendez. He is a Democrat, not a Republican.”

Seeing as how NBC’s Today wasn’t interested in the trial, it wasn’t shocking that they’d punt coverage to AP wire stories. Again, it’s still troubling that this liberal network didn’t engage in any serious proofreading.

Here’s a screen-cap of the NBCNews.com story with a time-stamp of 3:31 p.m. Eastern:



Likely attempting to stop the verbial bleeding from this embarrassment, NBCNews.com edited the story by changing the time-stamp to 5:26 p.m. Eastern and correcting Menenedez’s party label: 



It was then changed again to a 5:35 p.m. Eastern publication time in order to add the correction at the bottom of the story.

A separate AP story had no such problem with party affiliation, as exhibited by the screen-cap below:

&&&&&

+++++

Jim Acosta Attacks Trump, Blaming Him for Deadly Events in Charlottesville

2017-08-12

CNN senior White House correspondent Jim Acosta unleashed a series of tweets throughout the day on Saturday blaming President Trump for the white supremacists rally and subsequently deadly violence in Charlottesville, Virginia. 

“These are the consequences of sanitizing white supremacists who seek to be rebranded as part of American ‘right.’ They are peddling hatred,” Acosta complained in his first tweet. 

Acosta made no attempt to look at his own employer or the rest of the news media in the mirror for the amount of free publicity they’ve given neo-Nazis over the last few years, but that would require a level-headed kind of analysis that he lacks. 

Even though Acosta wasn’t going to be pleased with whatever the President said, he offered this take beforehand: 



After two tweets quoting Trump’s remarks and a picture from Bloomberg’s Jennifer Epstein stating that Trump didn’t take questions afterward, Acosta continued his on-going audition to become a spokesman for the Democratic National Committee: 



Acosta seemed to ignore the fact that almost 63 million people voted for Donald Trump and unless he wants to condemn them as white supremacists, he’s not interested in unifying the country.

&&&&&

+++++

MSNBC's Joy Reid Says I'm Ugly, Hate Jesus, and 'Represent the Foulest Tradition'

2017-07-25

MSNBC’s AM Joy host Joy Reid went on unhinged Twitter tirade against none other than yours truly on Tuesday afternoon, decrying me as, among other things, an ugly person “represent[ing] the foulest tradition in American history” who hates not only Jesus but the poor too.

This whole meltdown began when Reid tweeted this tasteless attack on brain cancer-stricken Republican Senator John McCain (Ariz.):



I followed with this quip: “Stop fearmongering with fake news. This love-now-hate for John McCain shows how nothing matters to you people.”

Little did I know, this was more than a trigger for Reid. She started off by taking issue with my tweet: “I find it hilarious that you -- well in your parlance ‘you people’ -- dare to talk about civility.”

Reid might have thought I was talking about African-Americans, but I was obviously referring to the media. As I noted in my last item about the reaction to McCain returning for the motion to proceed, the media have gone from loving McCain to despising him to loving him again last week to now trashing him. 

As you’ll see below, basic human decency was lost in Reid’s responses, devolving into name-calling and making assumptions about me that I will each briefly address. Here’s her next tweet:



First of all, this one alone showed how little she knew about me. It’s downright offensive that she would suggest I belong to “the foulest tradition in American history and the barest incivility.”

My father was a Marine before becoming a teacher, recreation center executive, and now hospital security official while my mother helps to oversee my aunt’s small manufacturing business. I lived a middle class life where my parents sacrificed so much and taught me the values that made this country great. 

Even when things didn’t go our way, I was shown how to hold fast to the belief that God has a plan for each and every one of us. Sometimes, it’s hard to do the right thing. 

I’ve had plenty of friends from diverse backgrounds throughout the years. No matter what, I didn’t let my political beliefs get in the way of friendships.

Moving on, here’s her next two tweets: 





As far as my personal beliefs go, this is not the space for that. Reid also ranted in those two passages that I possessed a “sheer ugliness” that “merits none.” Yikes. I wouldn’t wish that on my worst enemies. Again, she exhibited a reckless disregard for my personal history.

Whether it’s my internships through college, working as the NewsBusters evening and Sunday analyst, or the ups and downs of my life, I truly love writing for you, the readers and people of the conservative movement.

Needless to say, Reid’s type of language is unbecoming anyone in American political discourse. Period.

She concluded by saying “get the hell out of my mentions,” but immediately continued tweeting at me: 



My colleague Tim Graham astutely mentioned earlier how the Boy Scouts were beaten and battered by the left and “the LGBT Pressure Bus” so that they would kowtow and promote nefarious lifestyles. So, it’s intriguing that the left is now concerned about upholding the Boy Scout Oath and Law.

I did respond with smaller quibbles, but here’s the uninterrupted tweetstorm I first sent out (with links to stories for emphasis):

Yikes. First of all, if I was so horrible, why are you still messaging me? You know nothing about me and my beliefs over the years. 2nd of all, whatever happened to praying for your enemies, as you and Rev. Barber denounced. You want to talk about loving Jesus? That's it, not wishing the worst on someone. Also believing in the abortion of innocent children, but that's for another debate. You showed your contempt for huge swaths of the American people by denouncing millions as "hillbillies" back in March. You allow guests like Jennifer Rubin to decry Trump cabinet picks as ignoramuses. NewsBusters uses no such language and doesn't accept it. You also said people are too dumb to understand Hillary's e-mails in August '16. YOU are supposed to be role model for people and you're doing anything but that. All the best to you.
Nevertheless, she expressed doubt that I prayed for my enemies, saying that she’d be “shocked you don’t choke on the word ‘love.’” I tweeted that I certainly have, as per Matthew 5:43-48. I also made clear that I find Barack Obama to be a good man who loves his family and I still prayed for him despite my vehement disagreements. 

Alas, she countered with Jeremiah 22 to claim that conservatives like myself want to rob the poor of their health care, creating a fallacy that conservative policymakers a lot smarter and older than I am could debate.

Joy Reid can lob these insults and claims I don’t know Christ, but following Christ has been the center of my life, above any material possession or person. All that we have is because of God’s blessings and His Son’s sacrifice on the cross so that our sinful selves would have a chance at eternal life.

So, yes, I do pray. And I pray for my enemies. I don’t see how any of that is ugly or foul. But then again, call me old-fashioned.

&&&&&

+++++

Disgusting: Reuters Broadcasts Livestream of Sean Spicer’s House

2017-07-21

Roughly two hours after White House press secretary Sean Spicer announced his resignation, Reuters disturbingly set up shop outside Spicer’s house and provided a livestream for viewers to follow along with. 

It doesn’t take a whole lot of decency to conclude that this is a disgusting and tasteless display by an organization who’s White House correspondent (Jeff Mason) is the president of the White House Correspondents Association (WHCA). One has to wonder if Mason thinks this is good journalism.

As of 2:15 p.m. Eastern, there were zero signs of movement inside Spicer’s Virginia house. This being said, the debasing, paparazzi-like behavior by Reuters has actually given the American people a valuable takeaway, which is just now little the media take this seriously. 

For the liberal media, they couldn’t be any more overjoyed by the chaos at the White House. Friday marked another day of fun and games for the media with Spicer acting as another notch in their belt as their warpath to remove President Trump from office drags on.

&&&&&