+++++

Delta Airlines: Fighting Patriotism And Competition, One Day At A Time

2017-11-02

Flying has become a modern-day version of getting into a cattle car. Consolidation of the industry has limited competition, leading to a decline in customer service.

A first-year economics student could tell you that consumers win when companies compete, yet this is a concept that seems entirely foreign to Ed Bastain, the CEO of Delta Airlines.

Mr. Bastain is an ardent defender of mergers in the American airline industry. In fact, he proclaims them to be “unambiguously great.” Consolidation of existing companies would be permissible if competition was allowed, but it appears that Bastain and his company are also working to limit the number of market participants.

The reason Bastain may want to squash the free market is that increased competition would force his company to either curb its draconian policies or pummel into bankruptcy.

Remember: Delta was the airline that went full Kaepernick, refusing to allow a passenger to sing the national anthem when Army Staff Sergeant Dustin Wright, a fallen American soldier, was onboard on the flight. When passenger Pamela Gaudry noticed she was accompanied by the fallen hero and began singing, Delta said it was “against company policy to do that and so we are going to land and everybody is going to stay in their seats and be quiet.”

The patriotic Ms. Gaudry blamed herself for failing to ignore the orders of the flight attendant, telling the world in a viral video that:

“I’m humiliated by my lack of courage to sing the national anthem in my own country on American soil with a deceased soldier on the plane. I just sat there with tears rolling down my face. Hundreds of thousands of people now know that Dustin Wright died for our country and there were a lot of people on that plane that wanted to honor him. Hundreds of thousands of people are praying for this family now that weren’t.”
As his company makes national headlines for what is perceived to be a lack of humility, Bastain is leading the effort to prevent competitors from entering the marketplace and offering more reasonable terms of service.

Recently, the Partnership for Open and Fair Skies, a coalition that represents Bastain’s Delta, hired SKDKnickerbocker, a lobbying and public relations shop full of Obama and Clinton acolytes, to pressure the Trump administration into freezing existing Open Skies agreements. These pacts allow airlines from other countries to fly between American cities, as well as American airlines to fly to foreign destinations.

Specifically, the coalition is asking the government to prohibit Gulf State airlines from entering the marketplace. They argue that foreign governments’ heavy subsidization of their airlines creates an “unfair playing field,” which needs leveling through this sanction of sorts.

Delta’s protectionist argument will not fly with consumers, who are already nickeled and dimed to death on bag and seat fees and will not tolerate further price hikes. Not long ago, a bipartisan group previously rejected similar arguments when they temporarily killed the Export-Import Bank, an institution they billed as being a perpetrator of corporate welfare.

It is laughable for Delta to suggest that the government does not subsidize American airlines. For starters, the US does not tax bag fees, which bring billions into the coffers of the carriers. Specifically, Delta benefited from Canadian subsides when they purchased Bombardier aircraft, all while the Trump administration slapped that very plane with new tariffs after finding it benefited from government largess.

It seems Delta and its cohorts love to compete, but only in a non-competitive marketplace. Unfortunately for them, the Trump administration will continue siding with American consumers by adhering to the Open Skies agreements, no matter how hard they lobby.

Instead of spending extravagant sums on this futile lobbying campaign, perhaps they should be investing that money in improving consumer relations. It may only be a matter of time until they learn this lesson the hard way when new competitors arise.

&&&&&

+++++

“Populism” Should Not Mean Tax Increases

2017-10-12

President Donald Trump is hitting the road to help pressure key United States Senators about the importance of reducing taxes on the American people. This week, he traveled to the Keystone State to make his pitch. While traditional Republicans like Mitt Romney had difficulty appealing to America’s middle and working class, Trump was accepted while in full sales mode, making his pitch directly to the middle and working class.

Speaking in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, the president proclaimed that enacting his bold tax cut measure would constitute a massive pay increase for America’s workers. The president said:

“We will totally eliminate the penalty on returning future earnings back to the United States and we will impose a one-time low tax on money currently parked overseas so it can be brought back home to America, where it belongs and where it can do its job. My counsel of economic advisers estimates that this change, along with a lower tax rate, would likely give the typical American household a $4,000 pay raise.”

Trump also said that a reduction in the corporate tax rate would be “like rocket fuel for our economy.” His plan as currently proposed would significantly reduce the corporate tax rate from 35%, which is one of the highest in the world, to 20%.  In addition, he would like to reduce the number of income brackets, boost the standard deduction, and simplify the tax code.  Trump pledged that the benefits of the proposal would go right to the heartland of America – its middle class.

There is reason for optimism. If the Republican Party agrees on one thing – at least in theory – it is on taxes.  There is a consensus that taxes, particularly on corporations, is too high.  Demonstrating a seriousness not seen on other issues, Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis) is threatening to be a “Grinch” by promising to cancel Christmas vacation should the proposal not be enacted by December.

There is also some reason to believe the proposal may garner some Democrat support – something lacking when the GOP attempted to repeal Obamacare.  During a recent pitch on taxes in Indiana and South Dakota, Trump was accompanied by vulnerable Democrat Senators Joe Donnelly (D-Indiana), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND) and Joe Manchin (D-WV). Failure to support the measure would not go over-well in their deep red states.

On the other hand, the president’s relationship with some Republican senators is, shall we say, alienated. Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz) knifed the Obamacare repeal effort in the back, while Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn) has been in a Twitter war of words with the president.

Then, there is, of course, the fine details of the proposal. Trump’s proposal also has run into opposition from GOP members in high-tax states like New York due to his proposed elimination of the state and local tax deductions. It also seems that the president can play the class warfare game as well as most Democrats. On the campaign trail, he joined with Hillary Clinton to denounce the so-called “carried interest” provisions of the tax code, which Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin has thankfully walked back a bit since.

For those unfamiliar with carried interest, it is the capital gains tax rate as applied toward partnerships. Many Democrats have begun to question why the rate of taxation on investment and capital is so much lower than the rate on income. Some, including Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) have gone so far as to propose eliminating the difference.  That would, of course, constitute a massive tax increase as, under his proposal, the capital gains tax rate would jump to the high income tax rate.

Still, Rep. Tom Reed (R-NY), a Ways and Means Committee member, has even suggested that those who use partnerships for compensation “may well have to pay a little more” under the GOP’s tax reform proposal. This is outrageous. Republicans must not let the camel’s nose under the Wyden tent.

Democrats are the “pay a little more” party. Republicans need to look in the mirror, remember where they came from, and reject the proposals that would rob Peter to pay Paul.  Reducing taxes for all – not playing a shell game — will create jobs, as well as increase economic opportunity and investment, to really help the middle and working class that the president has championed from day one.

&&&&&

+++++

The CFPB Wants To Take Your Freedom To Contract Away

2017-07-14

Arbitration has become a critical way to avoid long, costly legal battles with shady trial lawyers who profit off the backs of consumers.  It should come as no surprise that the out-of-control Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), run by Richard Cordray, a former elected official heavily supported by the trial bar, has issued a rule barring mandatory arbitration clauses for class action lawsuits. Congress can repeal the rule using the Congressional Review Act (CRA) and should quickly do so.

Since its creation in the 2010 Dodd-Frank bill, the CFPB has been rightly criticized as an unconstitutional and out-of-control federal agency specifically designed to limit congressional oversight for their actions.  A federal court recently agreed finding that the structure of the agency violated the Constitution for the inability of other arms of the government to review or rebuke the Bureau’s actions, as well as the near unlimited power given to Cordray as the CFPB’s director.  The CFPB also lost its most critical ally, as the Department of Justice under Attorney General Jeff Sessions filed a brief opposing the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s appeal of a ruling.

Rather than work to reform the agency and bring it within constitutional bounds, the CFPB continued to party like it was 2011. This past week they issued their most controversial ruling yet, barring mandatory arbitration agreements for class action lawsuits.  Headlines describing the ruling joyfully proclaimed it will “help consumers sue financial firms,” and “make it easier to sue banks.” The trial lawyers are salivating.

This is certainly not the first time the trial bar scratched Mr. Corday’s back.  The two have been allies since Corday served as Ohio’s Attorney General.  The Wall Street Journal reported in 2010 on how Cordray schemed with the trial bar to allow out-of-state law firms to sue on behalf of the state pension funds.  The law firms got to court representing the state of Ohio, and Cordray and his allies received millions in political contributions from out-of-state plaintiff attorneys.  As the Journal reported,

Out-of-state plaintiffs’ law firms gave little cash directly to Mr. Cordray’s campaign, but in 2007 and 2008 they contributed $830,000 to the Ohio Democratic Party candidates’ fund, which passed about $2 million to support Mr. Cordray.  Mr. Cordray then launched what he called an “aggressive” litigation strategy. Six law firms so far have been retained to represent Ohio pension funds in new lawsuits; five of the firms donated a total of $300,000 to the state Democratic party candidates’ fund in 2008.
This new rule by the CFPB is no different. The real beneficiaries will be the class action suit specialists who make millions from suing companies while the consumers they represent walk away with pennies or a voucher.  A famous example is the Bank of Boston class action where attorneys pocketed nearly $9 million in fees while their “clients” their accounts credited between $2.19 and $8.76 as a result of the settlement, but also had their accounts debited with a “miscellaneous deduction” of up to $91 — to cover the costs of the settlement, i.e., plaintiffs’ and defendants’ attorneys’ fees and litigation costs.

The CFPB rule will allow the trial sharks to flood the market with such suits.  As Lisa Rickard of the Chamber of Commerce notes, “While arbitration is faster and cheaper for consumers, the bureau chose to release this rule, which will eliminate the option of arbitration for most consumers. Arbitration has been common practice for decades and provides consumers, employees, and other injured parties with accessible and fair procedures for obtaining redress for claims that cannot be vindicated in court.”

It is time for Congress to step up and reverse the decision.  The Trump White House and congressional leaders have used the Congressional Review Act to reverse many costly rules issued late in the Obama presidency.  The time has come to dust off the CRA once again and send Mr. Cordray and his trial lawyer friends back to the drawing board.

&&&&&

+++++

Congress Needs To Modernize Laws Regulating Communications Privacy

2017-04-27

I am amazed that the laws that govern communications and digital privacy are a relic from a generation ago. Did you know that the law only protects the privacy of emails for six months, because these laws were written during a time when not many people used email? Just as the laws governing emails are outdated, the laws governing the way we store data in the “cloud” are also outdated and in dire need of Congressional attention.

Right now a case relating to a warrant for data is winding its way up to the U.S. Supreme Court, because Congress has failed to be specific in writing the law governing the reach of a warrant for data. The law is silent on the reach of a warrant for email content, held by a company, that is stored on foreign servers. One reason may be that back when the law was written during the Reagan years, nobody ever envisioned a world where email would replace mail and calls and where you would replace filing cabinets with file folders on your computer screen.

The case in question, Microsoft v. the U.S., comes down to the question of an interpretation of the “Stored Communications Act,” a law written over 30 years ago, and whether that law authorizes the courts to issue warrants for this data served on a company held overseas. Although this sounds confusing, it is a simple concept when you think about your email and the data you hold on your computer – is that data yours or is it owned by the company you use to store the data. Most people consider emails private and data private only to be seized by the government when they have a warrant based on probable cause.

It is also a simple concept when you think about the idea of a “warrant.” A warrant is a document issued by the government, after a judge hears evidence, that is served on an individual or corporation for documents or items. But it is common sense that the reach of a warrant stops at the border. If I tried to serve a warrant on a company in Egypt or South Korea, the company might tell me no. If this were a U.S. company based in the U.S. and they said no, I would have federal agents take the documents or items, but when not in the United States, the person serving the warrant would not have the power of the government to force anybody to give me anything. That is because warrants are territorial and can only be served in the territory where the government has power to enforce the warrant. In other words, a warrant’s reach ends at the border.

Our founders wrote the 4th Amendment to the Constitution to memorialize the idea that your private papers can only be seized by the government when the government has a reason to seize them and when the government has an objective proceeding that produces a warrant. The 4th Amendment states “the right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized.” One could argue that unreasonable searches and seizures lead to our revolution and according to The Heritage Guide to the Constitution:

James Otis defended several colonial smugglers against seizures made through the use of “writs of assistance,” which permitted the customs agents to search any place in which smuggled goods might be concealed, even if there was no particular suspicion the goods were there. Though Otis lost the case, no less than an authority than John Adams saw the dispute as the spark of the American Revolution: “Then and there was the child ‘Independence’ born.”
The government argues that a warrant can be served on a company, because the company is holding the data and the company must produce the data. The consumers believe that data in the “cloud” or stored email communications are private and any warrant for data should be served on the person who created the data. This issue, and the reach of a warrant are in the process of being debated all the way up to the highest court in the land.

One concern is that if the courts were to overturn this decision, then the problem will still not be solved without legislation and agreements with foreign governments to respect a U.S. court issued warrant. Another concern is that allowing warrants to reach foreign individuals and stored data would put U.S. citizens and companies at risk by encouraging them to show up in the U.S. trying to serve orders for data and items. And as we know, most foreign nations treat privacy much less protectively than we do in the United States.

If Congress wants to earn back the respect of the American public, they should find the proper balance between privacy and security when updating the laws to deal with this emerging situation. Leaving thirty year old laws on the books for the courts to deal with is not good government and will lead to even more distrust of the federal government from “We the People.”

&&&&&

+++++

This Week: Will Jeff Sessions Tame The Music Industry Crony Capitalists?

2017-05-16


In just a couple of days, we will found out just how serious Attorney General Jeff Sessions is about restoring “law and order” back to this country.

With a DOJ appeal deadline of this week to fight the music industry’s anti-consumer agenda, Sessions has a chance to protect American businesses by taking a stand for what has been the law of the land for over three quarters of a century.

Over the past several years, I’ve been watching the Department of Justice’s antitrust review of the music industry. The two largest collectives for the music industry – the American Society of Composers, Authors & Publishers (ASCAP) and Broadcast Music Inc (BMI) – control about 90% of all the music we listen to. ASCAP and BMI license music rights to millions of businesses across the country – restaurants, retailers, bars, radio stations, and even hotels. As a result of antitrust litigation against ASCAP and BMI, both organizations operate under antitrust consent decrees with the Justice Department.

These consent decrees allow ASCAP and BMI to maintain their monopolies in exchange for protections against anti competitive practices, such as prohibiting ASCAP and BMI from discriminating between similar businesses and providing an appointed rate court in the absence of agreement over licensing terms.

Generally, I’m opposed to any sort of government involvement in the marketplace, but ASCAP and BMI present a unique set of circumstances. However, these consent decrees did nothing to break up the monopolies or create competition in the marketplace. In fact, ASCAP and BMI maintain the same market power today that they did when the consent decrees went into effect – about 75 years ago. If the consent decrees went away tomorrow, no free market would flourish. Instead, the marketplace would again be dominated by two unconstrained monopolies.

Several years ago, after being rebuffed by the courts, ASCAP and BMI asked the Department of Justice to relax the consent decrees to allow greater use of their market power. The Antitrust Division at Justice conducted a thorough review with multiple rounds of input from various stakeholders. Late last summer, Justice determined that no changes should be made to the ASCAP & BMI consent decrees.

ASCAP and BMI immediately appealed to the courts and well placed allies on Capitol Hill. In a surprise turn of events, a friendly judge in New York sidestepped all legal precedent and sided with BMI, thereby reversing part of the Department of Justice’s decision.

The lower court ruled that Justice was incorrect in its prohibition of a practice known as “fractional licensing.” ASCAP and BMI asked Justice to give them the ability to license their works on a fractional basis – meaning a restaurant or bar would need to negotiate a license with every owner of a song in order to perform the song publicly. However, a business such as a restaurant might have to license millions of songs to avoid copyright infringement, and many if not most of these songs have more than one owner (many of them have multiple owners).

Fractional licensing would represent a dramatic overhaul of the entire music licensing system. At a minimum, it would grind the system to a halt, meaning fewer and fewer businesses would incorporate music, or play only from stripped down playlists. Fractional licensing would also expose businesses up and down Main Street to increased exposure to infringement liability. And at its worst, fractional licensing would lead to higher costs and troll-like behavior of those leveraging higher fees against the threat of infringement litigation.

Knowing the negative impact fractional licensing would have on consumers, Justice announced its intent to appeal the lower court’s decision. However, the clock is ticking for Jeff Session’s Justice Department. The appellate court has set a deadline of this week to move forward with its appeal. The holdup for Justice remains getting the President’s appointees through the Senate.

It is critical that the decision makers within Justice move forward with this appeal. Fractional licensing would only serve those that want to exploit uncertainty in the marketplace. It would reduce the amount of music available to consumers. Worse yet, it would expose businesses of all shapes and sizes to added infringement litigation. Fractional licensing might prove lucrative for the trial lawyers, but it would not be good for consumers or the economy.

&&&&&

+++++

Trade Policy With China Should Be America First

2017-04-19
The trade policy that the United States has with China makes no sense and is inconsistent with an “America First” trade policy. While the Chinese come to the United States and buy up companies and land, Americans are not given the same opportunities in China. This violates the idea of reciprocity in trade agreements. China protects companies from American investors while the opposite is not true.
Reciprocity should be a centerpiece of President Donald Trump’s trade policies. When President Trump met with Chinese President Xi Jinping last week he pressured the leader to help with North Korea. Trump spoke of “tremendous progress” in the relationship and reciprocity was likely one of the topics discussed.
According to a story in U.S. News & World Report, China is buying its way into the U.S. economy. “Since the turn of the new year, Chinese suitors have either announced interest in or closed on several multibillion dollar acquisitions of American institutions, such as General Electric’s appliance wing, construction manufacturer Terex, Starwood Hotels, California-based tech company Ingram Micro and finance and production outfit Legendary Entertainment.” They are also trying to purchase the American financial services company MoneyGram.
Chinese foreign direct investment is in the tens of billions every year and rising. Yet, the contrary is not true. This is probably because of the heavy Chinese government involvement in the business sector. It is a government controlled economy that does not allow foreign investment.
There is a way to stop this transaction to provide leverage to the Trump Administration to get American business better access to Chinese markets. The Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) has the power to review these transactions to study for national security concerns. Using the CFIUIS review process to block the transaction would also serve the purpose of providing leverage to secure a better trade agreements with China.
This transaction should raise some eyebrows because this is a $880 million purchase of an American company that handles the financial information of American citizens.
According to a January 31, 2017 story written by Steven Davidoff Solomon at the New York Times:

The first test of the Trump administration’s stance on Chinese investment is approaching: Ant Financial’s $880 million acquisition of the United States payment processor MoneyGram.
Ant Financial was spun out of the Chinese e-commerce colossus Alibaba in 2014, and was formerly known as Alipay. One way to think about Ant’s business is that it is the PayPal of China, the main facilitator of online payments in that country. Ant Financial changed its name as it expanded into other finance businesses, but its core product is still Alipay, with 450 million Chinese users and 58 percent of the online payment business, according to Credit Suisse.
The Times reports that the intent of this transaction is not to help American business, but to “service the 100 million-plus Chinese who travel abroad every year and use the company.” This seems to be inconsistent with an America first economic policy and will be the first true test of Trump’s view on Chinese investment in the United States.

&&&&&

+++++

Mr. Sessions — Drain The Swamp; Don’t Add Adelson’s Water

2017-04-19


It is not often one can find agreement with the words written in the Huffington Post but it is difficult to oppose Christopher Grove’s argument that efforts to ban state-regulated Internet gambling is “job-killing, tax-raising, and a waste of everyone’s time.”

In 2011, the Department of Justice (DOJ), based on court rulings and original intent, informed states the federal government did not have the power to prohibit them from legalizing online gaming or the sale of lottery tickets online – if it was strictly limited to their own residents. While there was no public outcry after New Jersey, Georgia, Illinois and other states exercised their power under the Tenth Amendment, legalization did raise the hackles of one man – billionaire Sheldon Adelson. The casino owner undertook a campaign to roll back these laws – not on the state level – but on the federal level.

His allies introduced legislation that would protect his casinos from competition while spitting on the Tenth Amendment of the Constitution. Besides some congressional hearings on the subject – which were an embarrassing episode for the bill’s proponents – the legislation has gone nowhere. But a new and perhaps more dangerous threat has emerged.

During his confirmation hearings for Attorney General, Sen. Jeff Sessions responded to a question from Adelson’s primary ally in Congress, Sen. Lindsey Graham, expressing disappointment at DOJ for their ruling and suggesting he was willing to take another look at the issue. Some believe the threat is real and a ruling could come within weeks.

Unilaterally pulling the plug on five years of economic development in this field would be a disaster. New Jersey, which has had slow growth in the area, has turned a corner. As Grove noted, in the Garden State alone, 3,000 jobs have been created and $80 million in state revenue has been raised since the state legalized online gaming.

To ensure that Mr. Sessions realizes the impact of a potential decision, the National Governors Association recently dispatched a bipartisan letter to the Attorney General reminding him that the states have always been the primary decision-makers on gambling legislation. “The regulation of gaming has historically been addressed by the states,” Gov. Terry McAuliffe and Gov. Brian Sandoval wrote. “While individual governors have different views about offering gaming—in a variety of forms—within their own states, we agree that decisions at the federal level that affect state regulatory authority should not be made unilaterally without state input.  A strong, cooperative relationship between the states and federal government is vital to best serve the interests of all citizens.”

The promise to “drain the swamp” of Washington did not contain an asterisk exemption for the biggest political contributor to the Republican Party. Reversing course would send the wrong message and could do real economic damage. This is a matter best left to the states – just as the Founding Fathers envisioned.

&&&&&

+++++

AG Sessions Should Reject The Latest Music Industry Push For Higher Royalty Rates

2017-02-28

Although Jeff Sessions hasn’t even been in the Attorney General hot seat for a full month, Big Music’s lobbyists are already starting to knock on his door.

With the change in White House leadership, the music industry, in its push to charge confiscatory and anti-competitive rates for music royalties, is lobbying harder than ever to license songs on a fractional basis.

Having failed for two years to convince the Obama Dept. of Justice to permit fractional licensing, and having failed to gain any traction for legislating it through Congress, the Performance Rights Organizations (PROs) that control the rights to over 90 percent of all music are now pressing Sessions to grant them their wish once and for all.

While Sessions was undergoing his confirmation hearings, the Songwriters of North America tried to capitalize on the change of White House leadership by filing a motion to oppose the Department of Justice’s dismissal of their lawsuit. If successful, they will finally be allowed to license songs on a fractional basis once and for all.

This lawsuit is just the latest in a years-long crusade by the music industry to weaken or scale back the more than 70 year old consent decrees that have kept the music licensing business competitive despite the monopoly status of the few PROs.

There is a reason that their efforts have been so futile thus far. All of the past Republican and Democrat administrations have refused to make Big Music’s dreams a reality because fractional licensing would create complete anarchy in the businesses world. It would allow any copyright owner who holds even the smallest ownership rights to a musical composition to have a voice in the negotiation process, allowing them to hold up the process and exploit purchasers for excessively high royalty rates.

Imagine agreeing to a royalty rate with 98 percent of the copyright owners only to have the process held up, and the rate charged exorbitantly increased, because the owner of the remaining two percent demands a ridiculously high royalty rate. Fractional licensing would allow for just this: it would enrich the IP-abusing copyright holders, and the monopolists that represent them, at the expensive of everyone else involved, including music consumers that would be stuck paying the higher business costs at the cash register.

Attorney General Sessions surely must know that the highly anti-competitive structure that would come from fractional licensing would in no way benefit music consumers and the artists who create and perform for listeners of music. Simply put, fractional licensing is not an idea that is consistent with any conservative vision of how the music licensing industry should operate, because it would throw free market prices to the wayside in order to bolster the power of government-created monopolies.

While there are many regulations on business that are needless and should be eliminated, most can understand that the consent decrees on music licensing protect consumer rights and make this industry far more competitive. This system benefits all of the parties involved, including the PROs who continue to enjoy record billion-dollar revenues from music royalties under the current structure.

Even the most conservative Republican members, including Mike Lee (R-UT), understand that the current whole work licensing system governed by the government consent decrees providers for a competitive music licensing market that is far more effective than any of the alternatives would be. It is necessary to keep the industry competitive and fair for all users.

Attorney General Sessions, as well as Congress, should reject fractional licensing, and make clear the current whole licensing model in practice is what needs to remain in place. It still works well for everyone, and the government doesn’t need to step in on behalf of the musical special interests to “fix” it.

&&&&&

+++++

Bill Ackman: Tilting At Windmills

2017-03-30

I made the mistake of paying to watch the mediocre documentary, “Betting on Zero”.

The documentary follows the ongoing saga between billionaire hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, founder of Pershing Square Capital Management, and mega nutrition company Herbalife. In the movie, which was reportedly funded partially by Ackman, the hedge fund manager makes the claim that Herbalife is a pyramid scheme preying on its distributors. This is a popular and successful health food company with sales in over 90 countries.

The movie portrays Bill Ackman’s three year failing battle against the company resulting in one failed accusation after another. The movie tries to portray Ackman as a benevolent billionaire activist, yet a Fortune article from 2015 indicates that he will make even more billions if the company fails. It seems like he is more motivated by greed, than a progressive movement to stop a company that he thinks is illegal and immoral. This is the same guy who invested in the drug company Valeant that was investigated by Congress for price gouging – he does not have a history of benevolence.  

I’m skeptical about Ackman’s claims and the manner in which he has manipulated the US Government, specifically the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) into going along with his ruse. The reality is that Ackman is a modern day Don Quixote de La Mancha of literary fame. He lives in a world of fantasy at the peril of his investors’ money. Quixote is a Spanish nobleman whose insanity drives his belief that he is a knight charged with bringing justice back to the world. Quixote’s tilting at windmills is a metaphorical description that is brought to screen in “Betting on Zero”.   

Ackman is a hedge fund manager who operates with dangerously limited diversity in his portfolio. He’s had a few wins but his failures have been exceptional.As a hedge fund manager Bill Ackman has taken on a role as a self-appointed knight to bring justice to the world. He has redefined ‘activist investor’ – he recently sold his stake in Valeant, a pharmaceutical company that bought out proven pharmaceutical drugs and then jacked up the price purely for profit. His loss in this company: $3 billion.

Today, he is continuing his crusade against Herbalife.  It’s a losing bet. Bill Ackman is managing his investments the same as Don Quixote believed he could bring justice to the world. Bill Ackman should stop tilting at windmills and start protecting his clients’ investments.

&&&&&

+++++

President Trump Should Support Open Skies To Avoid Outsourcing Travel Dollars

2017-01-26

President Donald J. Trump is pushing to Make America Great Again and his policies should aim to put American travelers and destinations first. A truly nationalist agenda the promotes America First policies would both make American airports better and deregulate the air travel market in a manner that stops using the power of government to allow the big three air carriers to charge exorbitant fares for flights and to treat American travelers like they are cattle.

President Trump has already had a dramatic impact on the economy. The stock market is experiencing the Trump Bump and soaring to all-time highs. One aspect of making the nation better is to make sure that government policies don’t harm economic growth. And one way to promote a policy that puts American travel destinations and travelers first is for the Trump Administration to stop protecting the government protected monopolists who run the big three legacy airlines and who have been gouging American travelers for years, therefore hurting travel destinations.

Air travel is a market that has the potential to create approximately 750,000 domestic jobs in the next decade. When Trump was still President-elect, he moved mountains to save 1,400 Carrier jobs that were scheduled to be outsourced to Mexico. The numbers of jobs that could be created by having travel friendly policies would potentially create close to one million jobs and pour cash into travel destinations in the United States.

One way to create jobs, is to expand domestic airports and promote Open Skies agreements that were started under President George H. W. Bush. The agreements established fair trade and free markets for international aviation. These agreements provide freedom from artificial limitations on routes, frequency and pricing that make it cheaper for consumers to fly and make travel destinations more attractive. They have led to American growth in visitation, manufacturing exports and much lower prices for consumers. The big three legacy carriers want to use the power of government to block out international carriers who serve to provide price competition and they oppose these agreements. President Trump should resist policies that would close off competition and, in the end, hurt American airports.

When President Trump talked about improving infrastructure and American airports, he complained that America was behind and the greatest airports are overseas in Dubai and Asia. The same can be said for airlines. Did you know that you can actually take a shower and hang out at a bar on Emirates Airlines? The Trump Administration needs to cut back government and allow our airlines to compete and not be over-taxed.

Sticking to Open Skies agreements, lowering aviation federal taxes and building up American airports would go a long way to putting American travelers first and making flying great again.

&&&&&