+++++

Martha Raddatz Grills Kellyanne Conway On Roy Moore: 'You Either Believe The Allegations Or You Don't'

2017-11-12

ABC's Martha Raddatz called out White House counselor to the president Kellyanne Conway on Sunday for refusing to say if she believed the women who are accusing Republican U.S. Senate candidate Roy More of sexual misconduct.

During an interview on ABC's This Week, Raddatz asked Conway if she had "any doubt about the veracity" of the claims Moore's accusers have made.

"The conduct described should disqualify anyone from serving in public office and I'll stand by that," Conway replied. "The president and others in the Republican Party have made clear that if the allegations are true, this man should step aside. But I've gone farther than that."

"But that goes back to that 'if'," Raddatz pointed out. "'If we prove this misconduct, then he should leave.' What is it that has to happen now for you to go into, 'He should step aside'?"

Deflecting the question, Conway insisted that "the president is not as focused on this as he is his major 14-day trip abroad."

"Let me ask you again," Raddatz interrupted. "Do you have any doubt about the veracity of the accusations."

"I only know what I read," Conway opined. "And I take very seriously allegations like this, particularly when they involvee someone who happens to be one of my daughter's age."

"I also want to make sure that we as a nation are not always prosecuting people through the press," she added. "He has denied the allegations. I've read the stories, I've heard -- not the testimony and the evidence -- but what people are saying publically. And I think what we all said stands."

"Roy Moore says that too," Raddatz observed. "He's just saying he didn't do it. So, what's the standard of proof here? It's one thing to say this is terrible conduct. It is terrible conduct! But the question is -- you are an adviser to the president, you have been following this -- what is your standard of proof? I mean, you either believe the women or you don't."

"What do you mean the standard of proof?" Conway stated.


↓ Story continues below ↓
"I mean, what does it take for you to say, 'He should resign'?" Raddatz pressed. "What has to happen before you would advise the president to say, 'Roy Moore should step aside'?"

"He should step aside if the allegations are true," Conway said.

"If, if, if!" the ABC host shot back. "Where does the if lie?"

"If the allegations are true, then he should step aside," Conway repeated. "And if the allegations are true about a lot of people then they should step aside."

"Let me say again, there are four women who were named," Raddatz concluded. "And 30 women coroborating it."

"And they should have their day and they should speak up," Conway quipped.

"I think they did speak up," Raddtaz said.

&&&&&

+++++

Van Jones Nails Steve Bannon For Agitating 'White Aggrieved Identity' To Enable Roy Moore Win

2017-11-12

CNN political analyst Van Jones asserted on Sunday that Republicans were facing a turning point over whether they go through with electing accused sexual predator Roy Moore as U.S. senator for Alabama.

"Let's be frank," CNN host Jake Tapper said during a discussion on the Sunday State of the Union program. "Roy Moore could absolutely still win."

"He could," Jones agreed. "We haven't mentioned [Breitbart chief and former Trump adviser] Steve Bannon in this. This is Bannonism on trial."

"Bannon is trying to create this sense of an aggrieved identity, frankly, of a white aggrieved identity group that's under siege by everybody," he continued. "And this is that in its worse form. So, you're not supposed to vote as a father, you're not supposed to vote as a woman. You're supposed to vote as a member of this identity group against the world. And if that works, that is very, very bad for the Republican Party and it's very, very bad for our country."

According to Jones, there is "no reason not to believe these women" who are accusing Moore of sexual misconduct.

"And so at some point, some things have to matter other than this ultra-tribal -- I think it's a very good term -- Trump identity politics growing in America at the expense of every other value," he said.

Former Republican presidential candidate Rick Santorum shot back that the "tribalism is on the Democratic side too."

"The bottom line is, it is tribalism on both sides," Santorum opined, adding that Moore should "step back" from running for the good of the Republican Party.


&&&&&

+++++

Judge Jeanine On Moore: 'I Spent My Life Going After Sexual Predators... But Let's Hope It's Not True'

2017-11-12

Fox News host 'Judge' Jeanine Pirro, a stalwart defender of President Donald Trump and the Republican Party, appeared to be on the fence over the weekend about whether Alabama GOP Senate Candidate Roy Moore should drop out of the race over allegations that he sexually preyed on a 14-year-old girl.

During an interview with far-right conservative activist David Bossie, Pirro seemed to be struggling with the sexual misconduct allegations against Moore.

"Mitt Romney has actually said, 'The presumption of innocence only applies in a court of law and it doesn't really apply here," Pirro complained on her Saturday program. "I mean, how can this guy and -- if the allegations are true, I spent my career going after sexual predators and pedophiles, trust me -- but right now, it's 40 years later. I doubt that there could ever even be a charge filed here."

"The guy has been investigated a million times, Roy Moore," she continued. "Apparently more than any other candidate in Alabama. Is the Republican Party destroying itself or didn't they do enough vetting of this guy, Moore?"

For his part, Bossie suggested that the charges against Moore were invalid because they came from a supporter of Hillary Clinton, ignoring the fact that at least one of GOP candidates's accusers voted for President Donald Trump.

"I don't know the answers to those questions," Bossie admitted. "But I can say this, Judge Moore has been on the ballot many times over a long period of time. How this just miraculously comes out when this Hollywood [Harvey Weinstein] and the atmosphere that is pervasive, which is, if there's an allegation, the person is guilty."

According to Bossie, who was behind the Citizen's United Supreme Court case, "in the case of these lowlifes in Hollywood on the left, [the charges] are accurate."

"This is 40 years ago!" Pirro exclaimed.

"It's the atmosphere that we are in," Bossie replied.

"The whole thing is ugly," Pirro concluded. "And let's hope that none of it is true. If it is, it's just an example of..."


Bossie interrupted: "One of the accusers is a Hillary Clinton supporter and volunteer and was with Joe Biden. It's an interesting thing that it seems to be a Democrat [sic] activist, a leftist activist in Alabama."

&&&&&

+++++

Fox & Friends Freaks Out After CMA Awards Mock Trump: Country Music Is 'Supposed To Be Conservative'

2017-11-09

The hosts of Fox & Friends on Thursday turned on country music stars who mocked President Donald Trump during the 51st Annual CMA Awards.

Carrie Underwood and Brad Paisley began the show with jokes about both Hillary Clinton and President Trump. But it was the jabs at the current president that crossed the line for several Fox News hosts.

"Remember in the olden days when football wasn't political and so many things weren't political?" Fox News host Steve Doocy complained. "Now, as it turns out, the CMAs have gotten very political."

Co-host Brian Kilmeade, however, seemed willing to cut the singers a break: "I like the fact that they opened up with a few hits on Hillary Clinton -- which Seth Meyers and all these other guys don't do -- and I thought they balanced it out."

Doocy argued that the Country Music Awards program was not supposed to "get political."

"Where's Dolly [Parton], where's Garth Brooks?" co-host Ainsley Earhardt opined. "They don't get political. Listen, Charlie Daniels -- Charlie Daniels talked about how he likes the old country better than the new country. Really? It's hitting country music now?"

"Isn't country music supposed to be conservative?" she added.

"I'm just going to go back to rap," Kilmeade concluded.


&&&&&

+++++

Fox & Friends Replays Clips Of Trump's 'Historic Victory' Instead Of Reporting On Huge Dem Win

2017-11-08

Fox & Friends on Wednesday empaneled a group of voters to relive President Donald Trump's "historic victory" instead of acknowledging Tuesday's huge win for Democrats.

Host Ainsley Earhardt began the segment by replaying highlights from the night of Trump's win, noting that he had victories in Ohio, North Carolina, Wisconsin, Iowa and Pennsylvania.

"We all remember where we were when that news broke," Earhardt beamed. "It has been one year after President Trump's historic victory over Hillary Clinton. We are back now with our panel talking about where we all stand today."

"Hillary Clinton was the worst candidate I've seen run on a national stage," panelist David Webb opined. "Donald Trump reflected what other said around the country: it's our kitchen table, our economics -- and we need a change in Washington."

"We're not hearing that the Democrats -- as they have always been with identity politics are interested in dividing the country." he complained.

Within minutes, the panel devolved into a shouting match about whether NFL players should be allowed to kneel during the National Anthem.

"No one can hear you at home when you all yell," Earhardt scolded. "It's annoying at home."


&&&&&

+++++

Kellyanne Conway: Criticizing Trump After Texas Church Shooting Is 'Disrespectful To The Dead'

2017-11-06

White House counselor to the president Kellyanne Conway blasted liberals on Monday for complaining about the lack of gun control laws just hours after the largest mass shooting in Texas history.

During an interview on Fox & Friends, Conway was asked to react to talk show host Chelsea Handler, who linked the Sunday's horrific church shooting to Republicans.

 Chelsea Handler ✔@chelseahandler
Innocent people go to church on Sunday to honor their God, and while doing so, get shot in killed. What country? America. Why? Republicans.
1:38 PM - Nov 5, 2017
 32,164 32,164 Replies   10,289 10,289 Retweets   38,128 38,128 likes
Twitter Ads info and privacy
 Chelsea Handler ✔@chelseahandler
I don't know how these poor people are supposed to accept that their government watches these mass shootings and does nothing. It's so sick.
7:08 PM - Nov 5, 2017

Twitter Ads info and privacy
"I'm sorry that we even have to show her Twitter comments," Conway told the hosts of Fox & Friends. "Because it's so far beyond any type of reasonable response that anyone should have."

"People are taking to Twitter in the comfort of their very luxurious lives, pointing fingers, and as far as I can tell, never really helping in between the tweet storms," she opined. "Never really helped charities, never helped people to heal, never try to reach across for understanding."

Conway added: "I'm really happy at times like this that President Trump is our commander-in-chief and our leader in this nation. Because unfortunately every president has to help heal the nation at different times, different tragedies. But the rush to judgement, particularly by people who just see politics and Trump derangement in every single thing they do, it doesn't help the victims and it's disrespectful to the dead."


&&&&&

+++++

Howard Dean: 'Jared Kushner Will Be Indicted For Money Laundering'

2017-11-05

Former Democratic National Chairman Howard Dean (D-VT) predicted on Sunday that President Donald Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner will be indicted for money laundering as a part of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's Russia investigation.

After NBC News reported that Mueller has enough evidence to charge former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn and his son, Trump National Diversity Coalition Director Bruce Levell told MSNBC that he was not concerned about the news.

"I'm totally confident. You know, I believe in the president," Levell insisted. "I think this whole Russia thing is a waste of time unfortunately. We'll see how that plays itself out. We've moved on."

Dean, however, had a different take on the news that Flynn and his son could face jail time.

"We believe we may well have a criminal in the White House," Dean lamented as Levell groaned. "Certainly, he has a special interest in the Trump family and their investments. And we think there is substantial likelihood that he has laundered money. That's what his associates have been charged with."

"You have a prosecutor [in Special Counsel Robert Mueller] who I think everybody on the Republican and Democratic side believes in a straight shooter," the former Vermont governor continued. "He is playing a very serious hand here. He's working his way up from the bottom as he's going to continue to do."

Dean added: "I think you're going to eventually see either the Flynns are going to plead guilty or... cooperate for some leniency."

According to Dean, "the next step is going to be the Trump family itself."

"There's a good likelihood Jaren Kushner will be indicted for money laundering," he stated. "And then we're going to have to see how far the Russian involvement goes."

"It appears to me what Bob Mueller is investigating is whether the president of the United States engaged with a foreign power in order to get where he got. That's a very serious matter for this country."


&&&&&

+++++

Brian Stelter Busts Kellyanne Conway For Deflecting: 'When I Say Russia, You Say Clinton'

2017-11-05

CNN host Brian Stelter called out White House Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway on Sunday for pivoting to Hillary Clinton every time he asked about possible collusion between President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign and Russian agents.

During a lengthy and contentious interview, Conway accused CNN of profiting off of opposition to President Donald Trump.

"You want to talk about approval ratings and I'm telling you the numbers that matter to Americans," Conway snapped at Stelter.

"Because his approval ratings are shockingly low," Stelter noted. "It's a problem, not just for you and for me, but for the nation that this president is not trusted by the American people."

"That's wrong," Conway replied. "You know what's a problem for the nation? That you refuse -- CNN used to be a place where people can tune in and get the news all day long. Now, they get spin and people's opinions. And I think CNN should own it. Why not just say, 'Look, it's in our commercial interest at CNN to be anti-Trump'?"

"I understand that you don't want an adversarial media," Stelter remarked. "I guess you just want everybody to be like Fox News."

"Stop being so jealous of Fox News," Conway jabbed. "I think that would help if you dropped the jealousy a litle bit about Fox News."

As the interview continued, Stelter told Conway that he found it troubling that Trump was trying to "meddle" in the Justice Department's investigation into Russia's interference in the 2016 U.S. election.

"The FBI and the Justice Department don't seem interested in both sides of the so-called collusion coin," Conway complained. "We've got multiple investigations through [Special Counsel Robert Mueller], through congressional and Senate committees. And CNN itself has been so hot on Russia, Russia, Russia and the dossier. CNN has been obsessed with this dossier for over a year now."

She added: "And now we know the DNC and the Clinton campaign paid the same firm for said dossier, which is completely unverified."

"Parts of it have been verified," Stelter said. "That is misinformation that you are spreading on my program."


"Then let's look at all sides of the coin!" Conway exclaimed. "Hillary Clinton, as Donna Brazile just pointed out -- I agree with her completely -- she was a walking, talking treasure trove of how to beat Hillary Clinton. We never needed to look farther than her."

"I think viewers see your pivot," Stelter interrupted. "When I say Russia, you say Clinton. It's part of a strategy."

"No, no, no, no! Sorry!" Cownay said. "I would be happy to never talk about the 2016 election again."

&&&&&

+++++

Paul Ryan Says Repealing The Estate Tax Is 'About Fairness' To Millionaires

2017-11-05

House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) defended his bid to repeal the tax on estates worth over $11 million because he said the law is not "fair" to dead people wishing to pass on all of their wealth to family.

During an interview on Fox News that aired on Sunday, host Chris Wallace asked Ryan why his tax reform plan included repealing the estate tax, which conservatives often refer to as "the death tax."

"We're only talking about like 5,000 people a year," Wallace noted. "There's already an $11 million exemption."

"I would say two things," Ryan said as he defensively crossed his legs. "First of all, it's a fairness argument. Second of all, it's a jobs argument. You actually create jobs by getting rid of this death tax. Because you know what kills one family business from passing their business on to the next generation? The estate tax."

"But there are a lot of protections for family farms," Wallace pressed.

"We believe that this is a fairness argument," Ryan remarked, repeating his talking points. "People work hard to build up their business, their farm, their ranch all their working lives. They pay taxes on that money all of their lives. And then when you die, you get it taxed away from you, you can't pass it on to the next generation."

"We just think it's unfair," the Speaker complained. "Death should not be a taxable event. And we should not be stopping people from being able to pass their life's work on to their kids."


&&&&&

+++++

Fox Guest Rips Sarah Sanders For Christian Hypocrisy: 'She's Squirming As She Lies'

2017-11-05

Dr. Jeanine Downie told Fox News on Sunday that White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders should not be criticized for her appearance. Instead, Downie argued that Sanders should be held accountable for holding herself up as an evangelical Christian while lying for President Donald Trump.

During a segment about a Los Angeles Times columnist who body shamed Sanders as a "slightly chunky soccer mom," Downie accused the writer David Horsey of being sexist.

"I think it's sexism plain and simple," she said. "People need to comment on her job that she's doing. It doesn't have anything to do with her accent, it doesn't have anything to do with the spoofs I've heard about her weight. Sean Spicer is overweight. Nobody commented is on his weight."

"My problem with Sarah Huckabee Sanders," Downie continued, "I'm concerned about the level of her holding herself up as an evangelical, but yet, Trump is accused of having a 16 percent track record when it comes to telling true statements and mostly true statements. And she holds up what he's saying and she lies. Her cortisol level is rising. She's squirming as she lies sometimes."

Downie noted that Sanders "reads a Christian devotional apparently every day before she gets up to speak in front of the White House press corps."

"So as a Catholic, I'm looking at her and I'm concerned about her upholding Trump's lies," the Fox News guest added.

As the panel concluded, Political Science Professor Dr. Jeanne Zaino pointed out that complaints about sexism against Sanders could backfire on conservatives because of President Trump's history of crude and sexist remarks.

"He criticized Ted Cruz's wife for her looks, Carly Fiorina for her looks," Zaino said. "It doesn't give anybody the right to attack anybody. All I want to say is it's fair game on both sides. You cannot attack women for their looks."

&&&&&

