+++++

ESPN Executives Terrified That Ratings Drop May Force Cable Networks To Dump Monday Night Football

2017-10-07

How the mighty have fallen and what a difference a year makes. Now that I have the trite cliches out of the way, let’s get on with savaging ESPN and the NFL, shall we? Ratings are continuing to crater for the NFL because of ‘Kneel Gate’. Now, one genius analyst is advising ESPN that it would be good business sense to not broadcast NFL games and forego the $15.2 billion that it makes them in doing so. Wow! Someone is in sore need of a math lesson here. The Hollywood Reporter’s James Andrew Miller thinks the solution is to dump football instead of dumping players who disrespect the National Anthem. That’s insane.

But say that ESPN did dump football… it would be the end not only for ESPN, but the NFL. If they are into suicide, by all means have at it boys. You won’t see Americans shedding a tear over it. Baseball is stomping the hell out of football in ratings this year. The World Series ratings pulled more viewers than the NFL’s season games for a second year in a row. Telling. And MLB only has one player that kneels. That jerk is with the Oakland A’s and was just suspended for six games for pulling a gun on a female food deliverer. Classy.



This may have been more than a suggestion by the way. Miller points out that ESPN may have already quietly set up the move to dump the NFL by removing from its affiliate agreements a former requirement that it retain NFL broadcast rights in order to keep its high subscriber fees intact. Yes, ESPN is just that stupid. If ESPN dumps the NFL, cue the shock for affiliates who will suddenly lose lucrative NFL broadcast rights. Then ESPN will try to recoup losses by jacking up fees.

“This means the network would not face automatic decreases in that vital artery of its dual revenue stream,” Miller says of the new provision and how it might save the network if it dumps the NFL. “Sure, distributors would be aghast, demanding to negotiate lower fees probably immediately, but the point is, there would be negotiations, enabling ESPN to do everything it could to keep those numbers as high as possible.” What Miller doesn’t get is that a number of those distributors will walk over this and not come back. ESPN overvalues themselves greatly here.



The NFL is now looking towards the Big Three TV networks, (ABC, CBS, and NBC) for help. Disney owns ESPN and may push them into dumping the NFL because of a dearth of profits. In August it was reported that ESPN’s hemorrhaging of subscribers and advertisers added to Disney’s financial woes as the cable network’s profits fell another $1.46 billion. ESPN laughingly believes that if they dump the NFL, they will get an influx of investor capital. Not going to happen.

Football was already hurting from the concussion scare out there. Then political activism hit and they were moronic enough to buy into it. The answer for ESPN AND the NFL is not less football. It’s less political correctness and politics on the gridiron. Evidently, they are just too liberal and far too stupid to get this simple fact.

&&&&&

+++++

Breaking Bad Celeb Bryan Cranston: If you want Trump to fail, “f— you.”

2017-10-01

Bryan Cranston of Breaking Bad is not a fan of President Trump’s. But he’s got a message for anyone foolish and hateful enough that wants to see Trump fail… “F— you.” “President Trump is not the person who I wanted to be in that office, and I’ve been very open about that. That being said, he is the President,” Cranston stated. He once pledged to move out of the country if Trump won the White House. Guess he’s decided to deal with reality and being an American. Good for him.

“If he fails, the country is in jeopardy. It would be egotistical for anyone to say, ‘I hope he fails,’” Cranston, 61, explained. “To that person I would say, f— you. Why would you want that? So you can be right?” Gee, sanity out of Hollywood. Today is a strange day indeed. He’s right of course. It doesn’t matter how any of us personally feel about Donald Trump. He’s our President. If he fails, we could find ourselves in a world war and on the loosing end of it. You just know Russia and all of our other enemies are salivating over the chaos in America.



Cranston is starring in a new film called “Last Flag Flying,” where he plays a foul-mouthed former Marine. He’s anti-war, so I’ll probably skip that movie. But he flat out states that he wants to see Trump succeed just as all Americans should. “I honestly do. … And if you’ve got a good idea that helps the country, oh man, I’m gonna support you.” This guy backed Hillary Clinton, but when she lost, he got over it, unlike most of the left out there. He’s been a very vocal critic of Trump, but that doesn’t mean he doesn’t support the President. He might not be perfect, but Trump is ours… period.

“I don’t care if you’re a Republican and I’m a Democrat or whatever, I don’t care. A good idea’s a good idea. Let’s do that,” Cranston said in the interview. “We’ve got to get away from this idea that our country is political football, and someone with a different opinion is the enemy. Assume they love this country as much as you do, and there’s always room for improvement. How can we make it better?”

Cranston will never be a fan of Trump… few in Hollywood are. But he’s got a point… as an American, you support your President and deal with what is in front of you. If you don’t like it, get someone else elected next time around.

&&&&&

+++++

Jesse Jackson Calls On NFL Players To Escalate Their Protests

2017-10-02

I didn’t think I could possibly like the Reverend Jesse Jackson any less than I do, but today is just full of surprises. Other than the asshats of the Houston Texans yesterday, most of the NFL protests were scaled way back. If Jackson gets his way, it won’t be that way for long. Speaking to the Houston Chronicle on Sunday, Jackson said, “The players should escalate their nonviolent protests. Donald Trump called them ‘sons of bitches.’ (Colin) Kaepernick is not degrading the flag. He’s kneeling to pray, which is in our best tradition. If we had not knelt and prayed nonviolently, where would we be today as a society?” Oh, bull feces. Kaepernick is not kneeling to pray. He’s facing the wrong way for Mecca. And what Jackson really wants… just can’t wait to see… is violence, regardless of what he says.

All of this came to pass after Texans Owner Bob McNair made disparaging comments about the players last Friday. During that meeting, McNair mangled the saying, “can’t let the inmates run the asylum.” Saying instead, that you “can’t let the inmates run the prison.” He eventually apologized for the reference, but it gave ammo to the leftists and militant black nationalists unfortunately. This didn’t sit well with NFL Executive Vice President of Operations Troy Vincent either, who took offense to those comments. Nor did it make the union or the NAACP happy.



Jackson just couldn’t wait to jump in on this as well. He said that McNair’s comments were indicative of a “plantation mentality.” Seriously? Everything is not about race and since most of the NFL is black, this is a moronic take on all of this. “The players are objectified in a sense,” Jackson said. “Mr. McNair is a product of the South. They act like he’s a victim or misunderstood, but those players have made him a wealthy man.” Black politicians (Sheila Jackson Lee for one) are now running with this narrative. These players are multi-millionaires. They are not oppressed or objectified. They are spoiled, entitled racists.

McNair was a wealthy man long before he bought this good-for-nothing team. That’s how he could afford to buy them in the first place. If I were him (and it’s a good thing I’m not), I’d fire the lot of them. I’d sideline the team for the whole season if I had to. Jackson said he believed McNair should get sanctioned by the NFL for his comments. Jackson should keep his nose out of other people’s business. McNair has officially apologized at least twice for his comments. His team, the Texans, staged a massive protest against him on Sunday regardless. It was beyond shameful.



Jackson is offended that neither McNair or Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones have responded to him. I’m not surprised they haven’t. Why would you? And Jackson can just shut his pie hole about the south. What an ass. Jackson is looking for publicity and a payday out of this. Bonus if he starts some sort of revolution.

&&&&&

+++++

Referees Are Done With Anthem Protests – Choose To Respond By Walking

2017-10-03

Respect. Two referees at a high school football game in New Jersey, a father and a son, walked off the field when the students took a knee during the playing of the National Anthem. Ernie Lunardelli and his son, Anthony, stood for the National Anthem with their hands over their hearts. They left the field as soon as the song ended because members of Monroe Township High School team took a knee instead of standing for the National Anthem. It’s the principle of the thing.

Both Lunardellis said they felt that the act of kneeling during the anthem was a sign of disrespect for the country, the flag and our soldiers. I could not agree more. “Anybody that disrespects the flag, in my eyes, it’s not right,” the father said. “What they are doing with this kneeling and everything, they have the right do to that, but the National Anthem has nothing to do with them kneeling. The flag has got nothing to do with why they are protesting. If they want to protest, let them protest, but don’t disrespect our country, the flag, and the armed forces.” “They’ve got a right to protest and so do we,” the son added. He is a graduate of Monroe High School. “That (taking a knee during the anthem) is not how I was brought up, and that’s not how I was raised. I’m not criticizing their right. That’s just my viewpoint.”



Both of the Lunardellis men warned the schools ahead of time that they would not officiate if any players took a knee during the anthem. They were good to their word. Nice to see real men take a stand. School officials planned retaliation against them and have filed a complaint with the New Jersey State Interscholastic Athletic Association. It would seem the school is supportive of militant racism and protesting anything American, but not of Americans who protest the wrongness of those actions. I have a word for that… hypocrisy.

“They are trying to get them to not give us any more games, basically saying we put the players’ safety in danger, but we didn’t,” Anthony Lunardelli said. “They obviously had enough officials to do the game. I’m not really worried about (being sanctioned). If I don’t ref again, it won’t be the end of the world.” Greater Middlesex Conference football committee Chairman Ben LaSala said the matter would be discussed at an upcoming meeting. Neither LaSala nor NJSIAA coordinator of football officials Carmine Picardo would speculate about what actions, if any, would be taken against the father and son referees. Of course not, they want to blindside them and make an example of the father, son duo.



Ernie Lunardelli said he already received a letter relieving him of his spot officiating at the next game. I think that pretty much says it all. Already progressives and other leftists are calling for the duo to never officiate another game and since it is New Jersey, they’ll probably get their way. It’s a bloody shame and it shows what a sad state our nation is in currently. I for one applaud these men and I’m proud of them. It’s not always easy to do what is right, but they did it. The same can’t be said for this sorry excuse of a school.



&&&&&

+++++

John Kasich Plotting ‘Pro-Immigration, Pro-Environment’ 2020 Presidential Run – Has He Gone Mad?

2017-10-04

Lord, save us from Gov. John Kasich (R-OH). I had far too much of this guy in the last election. A report has surfaced claiming that he is running for the presidency in 2020, although Kasich denies it. This comes from New York magazine. In a loooong-winded, bloviating and stupendously boring article, the leftist mag laid out how Kasich would rise to run again for the presidency. They are smitten with the Republican progressive. Hate to break it to you guys… he’s never going to be president. Not ever.

No matter how he denies that he is running, it sure looks like Kasich is. Since losing the nomination in last year’s Republican primaries, Kasich has kept on members of his campaign team who are helping him decide whether to run as a Republican or as an Independent, as he urges the Republican Party to move sharply to the left. “I think we need to be pro-environment,” he told the magazine. “I think we need to completely redo education. … Look, I loved Ronald Reagan. I met Ronald Reagan. But Reagan was then. Now we gotta move on.” Yeah, why don’t you just move on to the Democratic Party? I mean, you are a Democrat pretending to be a Republican, so come out of the closet already and be done with it for Pete’s sake. Liberate yourself, man!



If Kasich and his lack of conservative spine run, he wants a return to “basic principles of caring, of love, of compassion, of connectedness.” How nice. This is a guy who is an open borders fan. A guy that loves big government and entitlements. He can take his social justice and stuff it. “There has to be a fundamental change, in my opinion, with all of us. I’m willing to be part of that. I want my voice to be out there. I want it very, very much,” he said. What is this? Barack Obama 2.0… the GOP Remix?

This guy is delusional. In an interview with Fox News Sunday, Kasich also said the “bulk” of the Republican Paarty remained pro-immigration and not moving towards nationalism. “I think the bulk of the Republican Party — and I’ve been in the party since I was a college student — it’s one that believes in the fact that America has a place in the world, Reagan talked about it, it advances humanity. I agree. I think the bulk of the Republican Party does believe that immigration provides energy to our country.” Leave Reagan out of this… he would have shunned Kasich like the progressive plague he is.



Then Kasich decided to play hard to get… he denied talk of “plotting” a run, stating that “that’s just not where my head is right now.” Really? This guy is politically easy if you get my drift. In August, Kasich also denied claims that he was mulling a bid with alongside moderate Democrat Gov. John Hickenlooper (D-CO). Dang, what a freaking nightmare that would be. Shudder.

Remember how Kasich killed Cruz’s chances against Trump? I do. He’s feckless and slimy. But he does have a new book out – Two Paths: America Divided or United. I will never read that drivel. Kasich has been a vocal critic of Trump and has played an obstructionist to his presidency. The guy has no sense of loyalty and is self-serving. In October, Kasich suggested that he may no longer be able to support the GOP should candidates like Judge Roy Moore of Alabama continue to win primary elections. And that should tell you all you need to know about Kasich. He’s not fit to shine Moore’s shoes.

“If the party can’t be fixed, Jake, then I’m not going to be able to support the party, period, that’s the end of it,” he said. “I mean, I’m worried about our country and my kids’ future. I am worried.” I bet you are. If a real leader like Reagan were here, this guy would scurry into a hole somewhere. And standing against President Trump because he’s not liberal enough for this spineless vermin is just disgusting. Kasich needs to go away – let the real men and women of America handle leadership and the country.


&&&&&

+++++

Only Baseball Player To Take A Knee Arrested For Brutal Thing He Did To A Woman

2017-10-13

Major League Baseball has been above this whole mess of kneeling during the National Anthem. Except for one player that is… Bruce Maxwell, who is a catcher for the Oakland A’s. Earlier in the week, Maxwell told TMZ that he had been denied service at a restaurant in Alabama by a waiter who disagreed with the protest. Maxwell said, “He was like, ‘You’re the guy who took the knee? I voted for Trump and I stand for everything he stands for.'” The restaurant claims he is lying and I believe the restaurant. Maxwell says he complained and got another waiter. This guy is a dirtbag.

The waiter, Matthew Henry, and the manager on duty at the time, Anne Whalen, have both said the incident did not occur as Maxwell related initially to TMZ Sports. They said there was a dispute with Maxwell’s party at Keegan’s Public House in Huntsville, but it didn’t have anything to do with Maxwell’s kneeling during the National Anthem. In Maxwell’s party of three, he was the only one who produced a valid ID, so he was the only one who was served beer at the restaurant, Whalen said. Maxwell is making this up for publicity.

And staying true to his dirtbag label, Maxwell, 26, has now been arrested for aggravated assault with a deadly weapon. He ‘allegedly’ pointed a gun at a female food delivery driver after 6 pm Saturday night. Tough guy huh? Pointing a gun at a defenseless female… then getting busted for it and claiming he’s a victim. What a piece of excrement this guy is. This happened in Scottsdale, Arizona. I love Scottsdale… best food and atmosphere in the world. They have great people there and it’s a fantastic place to live, except of course for this jackass.



Maxwell was also charged with disorderly conduct. He looks more like a gang banger than a major league baseball player. Just sayin’. In September, Maxwell, who comes from a military family and who was born on a military base, became the first MLB player to kneel in protest during the National Anthem. Just shameful… his family must be so very proud. Not.

There are no details concerning what led to the incident, but I’ll bet you this guy is guilty. The police say he’s in custody now and awaiting a hearing where he’ll be charged formally before a judge. Hopefully, this takes him out of the game for the season. There is no excuse for this kind of behavior, no matter who you are. Bet he was on something too when it happened. No sympathy for this asshat and Major League Baseball would be better off without him.



The Scottsdale Police said Maxwell was arrested at his home and ESPN reported the catcher was in custody pending an initial court appearance. He’s getting a lot of press today and not the good kind.
&&&&&