+++++

Bozell & Graham Column: How Media Toasts Hurt the GOP Establishment

2017-11-04

A Morning Consult poll released on Halloween offers a scary result for establishment Republicans. They tested the approval/disapproval ratings of current members of the U.S. Senate. Guess who was in the cellar? Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell ranked dead last on a recent poll of senators' popularity.

Guess who came in second to last? Jeff Flake, the Arizona senator who’s retiring because he couldn’t possibly win a Republican primary. Then guess who came in third with highest disapproval? Sen. John McCain.

Now take a look at who has the highest approval. Bernie Sanders came in first at 71 percent. Right behind him was his fellow leftist from Vermont, Patrick Leahy, at 67 percent.

What lesson can we take from this particular survey? It starts with the media elites. When the media love a leftist, that only helps them with their base. The friend of my friend is my friend. It also endears them to independents, since the media portray leftists as feisty populists for the common man, and not as the over-regulating, super-taxing socialists they are.

On the other hand, when the media love a Republican, that causes great problems with the Republican’s conservative base. The friend of my enemy is my enemy.  It’s one obvious reason why McCain, despite (or more accurately because of) media valentines, couldn’t defeat George W. Bush in the 2000 primaries. 

Trump voters cannot stand McCain’s personal crusade against Trump. The media desperately want Republicans to attack Trump as viciously as they do, but getting on the wrong side of Trump is a perilous place to be.

Senator Flake’s speech on the Senate floor announcing the inevitable – that running for re-election was fruitless – made him the toast of MSNBC. Joe Scarborough gushed “This was our ‘Mr. Smith Goes to Washington,’ where you had a senator saying on the floor that the President of the United States in his party was a threat to constitutional norms, societal norms, and our children.” Predictably, Chris Matthews also dragged out the Jimmy Stewart movie reference, comparing Flake’s speech to “a moment straight from a great novel or movie.”

When a Republican is the toast of MSNBC, he’s toast with conservatives. 

Let’s stipulate that Mitch McConnell isn’t a media darling like the two Arizonans. It’s easy to recall how the journalists now wanting Trump impeached/indicted had a conniption when McConnell said out loud in 2010 that his first goal was to deny Obama re-election. They reacted like he’d slapped the Pope in the face while kicking Santa Claus in the groin. But to both right and left, McConnell represents Entrenched Washington, and right now, he embodies the disgust conservatives feel for having many of their policy aims sidelined and/or squashed.

Not every senator fits the formula. The fourth least popular senator is Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, now on trial for felony corruption charges. Of note: his rotten approval rating cannot be connected to national media coverage, since he is a Democrat. Forget accusations against Trump, or indictments against Manafort. We are talking here about a trial, where the defense has now rested. Network evening news coverage on ABC, CBS, NBC? Zero. 

Corruption, in the eyes of our partisan media, is solely a Trump problem, just like colluding with Russia to manipulate the election, or hating facts you find inconvenient. When Republicans agreeably proclaim that only Trump is ruining Washington on all of these things, they are trapped in the liberal media mind-meld.


&&&&&

+++++

Bozell & Graham Column: The Fusion of Reporting and 'Oppo'

2017-10-31

On October 24, The Washington Post reported that Hillary Clinton’s campaign and the Democratic National Committee hired the opposition research firm Fusion GPS to dig up dirt on Donald Trump. The firm then retained former British intelligence operative Christopher Steele, who assembled a dubious dossier (complete with prostitute rumors) from his Russian contacts.

Breaking news? Hardly. It’s all but disappeared. 

This, in one compact story, should have seriously undermined months of wildly speculative reporting on the Trump campaign seeking dirt on Hillary Clinton from the Russians, with the Democrats warning of “treason.” Even with the Manafort indictment, there’s still not a scintilla of evidence of Russia-Trump collusion. But looking like hypocrites, indulging deeply in a double standard, never slows these “news” reporters down. 

The Daily Caller hints at a deeper angle, and it calls into question the media’s sermons on transparency. 

CNN’s justice correspondent Evan Perez hyped this dossier assembled by Fusion GPS, but Perez and CNN never told viewers that Perez worked closely for years with the founders of this firm in a previous job. 

Glenn Simpson, the Fusion co-founder “most often associated with the dossier,” worked on the same reporting staff as Perez at The Wall Street Journal. They regularly co-authored stories. 

Peter Fritsch, another Fusion co-founder, worked above Simpson and Perez as the Journal's senior national security editor.

A third co-founder, Tom Catan, was also a Journal reporter in the same time frame. The Caller showed Facebook photos of these men still going to baseball games and fishing vacations together.

CNN’s anti-Trump stories have hidden all this behind a wall of “anonymous sources.” This is one dreadfully serious reason why the American people don’t trust “investigative reporting.” In reality, it turns out it looks like a series of chummy hand-offs, funded by Trump opponents.

“Pro-Clinton political activism” and “news reporters” are one and the same thing.

“News” is being assembled and colored by personal transactions between old friends and/or political allies. There’s a lot of horse-trading and glad-handing in the “news” process that they hide through their opaque sourcing techniques. 

To be fair and balanced on this ethical front, the conservative Washington Free Beacon website also retained Fusion GPS for research – for a few months before the Clinton campaign and the DNC – and the Daily Caller reported that they also reported on Fusion GPS without acknowledging a relationship. 

Campaigns for decades now have been ravenous for “opposition research” – combing over a candidate’s decades of policy positions, speeches, and personal behavior, looking for something damaging that can change a political trajectory. Candidates and political parties pay for it, but the investigative reporters are also doing it. 

In the Trump era, reporting and “opposition research” have become one and the same. The Clinton campaign and the DNC paid former reporters to find a gold mine in Russia. Why go the expense? Hundreds of liberal reporters helped the Democrats at no charge. The public needs to be skeptical about just how ethical they are in organizing scoops behind the scenes.   


&&&&&

+++++

'Inclusion' Landmark: Disney Channel Touts First Gay Character and Coming-Out Storyline

2017-10-28

Parents have realized that the Disney Channel brand isn’t about traditional family programming…it’s about Hollywood using every channel to promote “inclusion and respect for humanity,” which is code for forcing LGBT acceptance. Shred the Bible, sin is in. Your “tweens” – and younger -- need to hear the gospel of the gay movement.

Deadline.com reports Disney Channel is introducing its first gay character on a children’s show, Andi Mack, in one of those Very Special Episodes:

The story arc will mark the channel’s first depiction of a coming-out journey. The character – 13-year-old Cyrus Goodman, played by 15-year-old Joshua Rush – will begin his self-discovery in this Friday’s second season one-hour premiere episode [October 27].

“Andi Mack is a story about ‘tweens’ figuring out who they are,” said Disney Channel in a statement. “(Creator) Terri Minsky, the cast and everyone involved in the show takes great care in ensuring that it’s appropriate for all audiences and sends a powerful message about inclusion and respect for humanity.”

The Walt Disney Co. released a general statement on stories and characters, which reads, in part, “Disney remains committed to continuing to create characters that are accessible and relatable to all children.”
Deadline added that Andi Mack is Disney's "top series of the year among girls (median age is 10) and #1 in its time period among all children ages six-14." 

The least surprising element of this story is the involvement of the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation (GLAAD), which almost always works hand-in-glove with any Hollywood production to promote homosexuality. “We hear Minsky and Disney Channel, to ensure the story arc is age-appropriate and respectful, consulted with child development experts and was screened to organizations including GLAAD, PFLAG, The National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy, and Common Sense Media.”

“With more and more young people coming out as LGBTQ, Andi Mack is reflecting the lives and lived experiences of so many LGBTQ youth around the country,” said Sarah Kate Ellis, President and CEO of GLAAD. “Television reflects the real life world and today that includes LGBTQ youth who deserve to see their lives depicted on their favorite shows. Disney has been a leader in LGBTQ inclusion and there are so many young people who will be excited to see Cyrus’ story unfold.”

Jaime M. Grant of PFLAG (Parents and Friends of Lesbians and Gays) also lined up to praise the propaganda: “Sharing one’s innermost self can be challenging, and to do so as an adolescent can be particularly so, especially when in the midst of figuring it out for yourself. Coming out requires honest self-reflection, no small amount of bravery, and a safe place with at least one trusted person – a friend, a parent, a teacher – who can hold your confidence…and your heart. Andi Mack’s creative team captures this moment of revelation with such thought, care, and authenticity; it will be a memory moment for some, and a teachable moment for many.”

Entertainment journalists don’t find any space in their story for any critics of pushing this homosexual revolution in children’s programming, or critics who might suggest that GLAAD-approved plotting won’t allow any “inclusion” of a sincere religious objection to their politically correct party line.


&&&&&

+++++

Bozell & Graham Column: Kaepernick and Christian Athletes

2017-10-28

So Colin Kaepernick is now suing the National Football League for collusion to deny him a job for kneeling during the national anthem. As was true with Michael Sam, the activist gay player who claimed owners didn’t want him after he was drafted and released, Kaepernick isn’t playing because he’s not worth signing – period. 

So what is it that keeps Kaepernick in the media spotlight? They like him. Multi-millionaire celebrities who wear Che Guevara T-shirts and socks attacking the police as racist pigs are celebrated by reporters. They feel your pain about racist America. 

But what if you’re an athlete with passionate beliefs about Jesus Christ? That, folks, is a bridge too far. That’s a name that probably should be avoided in mixed company. 

They made it almost toxic with Tim Tebow. Liberal radio host Bill Press told him to “shut the f— up” about his “Lord and savior.” Press called him a “disgrace.” Undeniably, he was voicing the opinion of many journalists. 

But not all. Usually, reporters are just uncomfortable with the subject. Take a new ESPN profile of Washington Redskins quarterback Kirk Cousins and his remarkable decision to pass up a long-term contract and play on a year-by-year “franchise tag.” In Kevin van Valkenburg’s article, faith didn’t bubble up until paragraph 17. Cousins said he told Redskins executive Bruce Allen “ I prayed about it and said, 'Lord, what do you want to do?'" 

Faith is central to Cousins. In a speech at Jerry Falwell’s Liberty University, Cousins explained "I just didn't feel a peace about signing a long-term contract. I think the Lord communicates to us in many ways, and one of those ways is through his peace. I just didn't feel a peace. I do believe that the Lord, at least in my life, he likes to use one-year contracts, not long-term contracts, if you will."

Cousins has a dramatic story of his ascent to a starting job in pro football. ESPN also noted that when he couldn’t get a spot on a college football team, his minister father told him, "Are you going to try and control your future, or are you ready to surrender your future to the Lord and let him do as he pleases?"

ESPN can’t really handle the spin on this ball. The website Get Religion, which often notices clumsy reporting on religion,  pointed out that this long article never included the words “Jesus” or “church” or “Christian.” 

Superstar Dodgers pitcher Clayton Kershaw, who won the first game in the World Series, has also spurred this awkwardness. An August story in the Los Angeles Times reported on his marriage to his wife Ellen, which was followed soon after by a trip to Zambia to work with orphans. Why? “It was always on her heart,” he said, adding, “It wasn’t on my radar and I knew when I married her that it was going to involve me, so we went over there the first time three weeks after we got married. And it does. It changes you.”

“It was on her heart” is Christian lingo, and the Kershaws then wrote a book titled Arise: Live Out Your Faith and Dreams on Whatever Field You Find Yourself. They wrote “The battle to maintain a Christ-centered identity is the most worthy fight we will face.” But you wouldn’t know that from the newspaper account, which just avoided the entire religion angle. 

Journalists in the last year have lamented a lack of role models for youth, and properly so. Why not then spotlight the athletes whose Christianity is their inspiration? There are many stories out there, waiting to be told. 


&&&&&

+++++

Media Dramatically Downplay Senator Flake Was Getting Crushed, and Had to Drop Out

2017-10-25

Sen. Jeff Flake’s floor speech on Tuesday was greeted like a heroic and historic moment. Flake was giving the liberal media elite what it wants: a revolt against Trump, followed by Democratic Party gains and a Trump impeachment, in no particular order.

The media elite didn’t want to drain the “thunderclap” of this moment for political reality: Flake had to drop out. He was going to get crushed in a primary. Nobody played that as the lead story. Everyone chose Flake’s spin, that awful Trump forced him to do this. The Hill recently reported a poll showing Flake losing the primary by 27 points, 58-31. His disapproval rating in Arizona was 56 percent.

Conservatives are tired of electing Republicans to make change, and then these Republicans voting for More of the Same. There is a real revolt against the GOP establishment taking place. The Swamp is spinning this madly as 100 percent idealistic, and zero percent realistic.

The New York Times put its front-page top-right headline in all capitals: "IN BITING SPEECH, FLAKE DENOUNCES 'RECKLESS' TRUMP." But the story didn't mention until paragraph 18 that "Mr. Flake's private polling had steadily become worse this year as he intensified his criticism of Mr. Trump." Near the story's end, they noted conservatives had targeted Flake. But the overwhelming storyline was captured below, where the Times ran a long transcript of the Flake speech under the headline 'And So, Mr. President, I Will Not Be Complicit or Silent.'"

The Washington Post waited until paragraph 27 to note "Recent polls showed Flake trailing the leading Democratic Senate candidate, Rep. Kyrsten Sinema, as well as potential primary rivals."

The Wall Street Journal also waited until paragraph 28 (the penultimate paragraph) to gently declare "Mr. Flake was considered one of the most vulnerable Senate Republicans up for re-election in 2018." 

The newspapers and networks failed to explain it from the conservative perspective: that this man, elected six years ago by the Tea Party movement, had utterly betrayed it, and was going to be run out of town on a rail. Take, for example our leader Brent Bozell, who recently tweeted:



MRC senior news analyst Kyle Drennen reports that ABC, CBS, and NBC aired 36 minutes and 59 seconds of Jeff Flake coverage on Wednesday morning, and just two minutes and 46 seconds discussed Flake's "tough bid for re-election." Most of that -- a minute and 58 seconds -- came on CBS, which had the most coverage with 13 minutes and 53 seconds.

NBC aired 13 minutes and 37 seconds, but only 25 seconds dealt with Flake's sinking poll numbers. ABC aired 9 minutes and 29 seconds of coverage, and gave only 23 seconds to the bad news like noting Trump tweeted he had "zero chance" of being re-elected.

&&&&&

+++++

Bozell & Graham Column: Media Skip Inconvenient Russian Truths

2017-10-24

CNN is airing a bizarre new advertisement with the motto “Facts First,” which insists that CNN calls an apple an apple, even if critics of their “news” reporting argue it’s a  banana. CNN, you see, is interested in objective truth, not opinions. This is like McDonald’s advertising with an apple that they’re all about health food. 

Our “news” networks don’t deal first with facts. They sell us narratives, and their favorite is the wild speculation about what might happen next...to President Trump. For months, they have speculated about how meetings with powerful Russians would be the end of Trump. From January 20 to October 20, just the ABC, CBS and NBC evening-news shows alone have given that story just over 1,000 minutes. 

Obamacare? Budget and taxes? Immigration? A possible nuclear war with North Korea?All are second bananas. It’s Trump-Russia, Russia-Trump, day in and day out.

The Russia narrative they prefer is this: Donald Trump won the presidency due to the help of an autocratic foreign power. But in the last week, a series of investigative reports in The Hill newspaper have brought something altogether new to the discussion: facts. And the facts are implicating the Obama administration, specifically Hillary Clinton, in some astonishingly unethical, if not illegal behavior with the Russians. 

– Russian nuclear industry officials were engaged in bribery and extortion before the Obama administration approved the sale to Russia of Uranium One, a company that controls 20 percent of America's uranium supply. They routed millions of dollars to the U.S. designed to benefit Bill Clinton’s foundation during the time Secretary of State Hillary Clinton served on a government body that provided a favorable uranium decision to Moscow.

– As he prepared to collect a $500,000 speech fee in Moscow in 2010, Bill Clinton sought clearance from the State Department to meet with a key official of the Russian nuclear energy firm Rosatom — which at the time still needed the Obama team’s approval for the uranium deal. Instead, Bill Clinton met with Vladimir Putin at the Russian autocrat’s private homestead.

– Nine investors in Uranium One jointly donated a cool $145 million to the Clinton Foundation. 

– An American businessman who worked for years undercover as an FBI confidential witness was blocked by Obama’s Justice Department from telling Congress about conversations and transactions he witnessed related to the Russian nuclear industry’s efforts to win favor with the Clintons and Team Obama.  

-- The FBI identified a Russian spy ring's attempt in 2009 and 2010 to infiltrate Hillary Clinton’s inner circle through a donor friend in order to spy on the State Department. Agents arrested and deported the female spy before anything could happen.

This reads like a fascinating spy novel, but ABC and NBC have offered nothing. Let that sink in. CBS aired one question (and one answer) on Face the Nation that lasted 69 seconds. CNN, which has spent hour after hour obsessing over Russian collusion with Trump, can hardly be bothered with this narrative. 

That’s “Facts First,” media style.

Naturally, the usual dishonest Clinton defense emerged: this was “old news.” When author Peter Schweitzer wrote about this issue in 2015 (without the new developments), he was virtually ignored, and if he was interviewed, “hostile” is an understatement. Here’s how NBC’s Savannah Guthrie treated “facts” back then. She asked Schweitzer "Before we get into some of the details, let's put it bluntly. Are you hoping that this book and the issues you raise in it torpedo her candidacy?" He said no, but she shot back “a lot of your critics say, 'Look, you are a conservative and that this is a right-wing hit job.' Are you really claiming to be neutral here?"     

No one is neutral in the pro-Clinton press corps. Facts never come first.

Update: ABC offered its first story shortly after our press time. 

&&&&&

+++++

Bozell & Graham Column: Hollywood Never Apologizes for Ultraviolence

2017-10-21

Hollywood’s hypocrisy about Harvey Weinstein is only outdone by its hypocrisy about gun control.

We still don’t know why Stephen Paddock unleashed his arsenal in an evil attack on October 1 at an outdoor concert crowd in Las Vegas, killing 58 people and injuring another 500. But Hollywood’s glitterati seem to know, apparently. They quickly and predictably jumped on Twitter and other media to denounce the NRA as terrorists and demand “common sense gun control” that, as usual, wouldn’t have stopped Paddock in any way.

So why does America have this mass-shooting problem? Will Hollywood ever look inward on this question and explore its role? Four of the biggest box-office successes in the week leading up to the shooting demonstrated the degree to which Tinseltown is aggressively promoting a culture of gun ultra-violence in America.

Matt Philbin of the Media Research Center reported that in just these four movies – Kingsman: The Golden Circle, American Assassin, Stephen King’s It, and Mother, featured an astounding 589 incidents of violence. It gets worse. There were no less than 212 incidents of gun violence and the body count is at least 192. In over 100 gun-violence incidents, some kind of automatic weapon is used (which is why the numbers are under counted: researchers literally couldn't count fast enough).

There are plenty of other forms of violence there as well.

It is the monster hit of the fall, with a box-office take of $315 million and counting. The movie has  only three gun scences, but one features a penetrating captive bolt pistol, which is used to stun animals prior to slaughter. Victims are stabbed, bludgeoned, and the killer clown even bites off the arm off a little child. Mother includes an atrocious scene of a crowd disemboweling and eating a baby.

Kingsman: The Golden Circle was the number-one film that weekend, a sequel to the hyper-violent original Kingsman: The Secret Service, which contained one of the grisliest murder scenes that Hollywood has ever produced  – where some kind of demonic neurological wave causes everyone to try to slaughter everyone else inside a church until they’re all dead.

The sequel includes 118 incidents of gun violence (70 of them with automatic weapons),  and another 164 incidents of violence. Philbin made a list: “body slams, punches, explosions, ripping off limbs, ripping out vocal cords, putting people in meat grinders, cannibalism, lasso violence, slicing people in half and eyes randomly exploding from people’s heads.”

The Hypocrite-in-Chief of this production is actress Julianne Moore, who plays the drug-lord supervillain in the film. Moore went on Jimmy Fallon's late-night show for the usual love bombs. Fallon said “Kingsman alone is fantastic!” and Moore said “Thank you! It’s a fun movie, right? It’s really, really fun.”

Since the Vegas mass shooting, Moore’s Twitter feed has been stuffed with tweets attacking the NRA and demanding gun-control legislation. Naturally, nowhere in this October Twitter festival is any mention of her “really fun” hit movie.

The Hollywood Reporter, to its credit, asked Moore if critics of Hollywood “glorifying gunplay have a valid point?” Moore shot back: “It is impossible to be killed by watching a violent movie, but unfortunately, it is all too possible to be shot and killed while sitting in a theater and watching any kind of movie.”

Hollywood might point the finger of blame for all this violence back on the audience, and there's merit to that argument. The Kingsman sequel won the weekend box office for two weeks. Before that, It won for two weeks. And before that, the winner for four consecutive weekends was....Hitman’s Bodyguard.

But does that exonerate Hollywood for feeding the beast?

The movie stars have no problem mudslinging at the NRA and blaming them for mass shootings. But they have demonstrated a complete lack of moral introspection about their own glamorization of over-the-top violence with guns...and with everything else. Until they get serious about their own responsibility, they have no right to judge anyone else.

&&&&&

+++++

Trump Tweets 'Forced' FCC Chairman to Defend First Amendment?

2017-10-18

Washington Post media blogger Erik Wemple was published in the newspaper on Wednesday -- which is pretty uncommon -- on how Trump “forced” Federal Communications Commission chairman Ajit Pai to defend the First Amendment. 

Brian Stelter & Co. freaked out on October 11 when the president tweeted “with all of the Fake News coming out of the Networks, at what point is it appropriate to challenge their license?” And: “Network news has become so partisan, distorted and fake that licenses must be challenged and, if appropriate, revoked.”

This was the dictionary definition of an empty threat, if it was an actual threat instead of just Twitter bravado. The networks don’t have broadcast licenses; their affiliates do (and they own a few). The liberal freakout that followed defined the term “sound and fury signifying nothing.” The FCC “Enforcement Bureau” has been no threat to the content of television, whether it’s news content or broadcast orgy scenes and blatant profanity. 

Wemple reported what Pai said Tuesday morning at George Mason University in Virginia: 

“I will reiterate what I have said for many years at the FCC, up to and including last month … I believe in the First Amendment. The FCC [Federal Communications Commission] under my leadership will stand for the First Amendment. And under the law, the FCC does not have the authority to revoke a license of a broadcast station based on the content of a particular newscast.” 

So do Pai's words somehow demonstrate he had to respond to passionate liberal outrage? Or do Pai's words underline that this entire controversy was the cliched nothingburger? It was good of Pai to answer the question....but he made the point that he hasn't changed his viewpoint one bit in many years. Which makes all the fevered CNN chatter about Trump as an "autocrat" who must be impeached sound like a hyperbolic overreaction. 

Wemple suggested Pai was responding to fellow FCC commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel – an Obama and Hillary Clinton donor –  who pleased Brian Stelter on his show by announcing “History won’t be kind to silence!” He also noted that Pai has spoken out against the increasing intolerance of free speech on college campuses, with a "common thread" that "those with views perceived as unpopular or offensive should be silenced.”

Wemple concluded: "That 'common thread' weaves straight across the Oval Office."

&&&&&

+++++

Bozell & Graham Column: Liberal Billionaires Are Never Villains

2017-10-17

Charles Pierce, the resident radical-left political pundit at Esquire magazine – that intellectual powerhouse best known for its “Sexiest Woman Alive” award  – is lamenting the role of Steve Bannon in electing President Trump, as well as Trump financial backers “Robert and Rebekah Mercer, the reactionary New York gozillionnaires.” 

Pierce wanted everyone to read about a lawsuit filed in May (news that's almost a half year old is "breaking" if the targets are conservatives) by a former Mercer employee named David Magerman, who, against company policy, felt compelled to tell The Wall Street Journal his boss had “contempt for the social safety net” and wanted “government be shrunk down to the size of a pinhead.” (Horrors!) In his lawsuit, Magerman upped the ante and claimed Mercer held racist views.

Full disclosure: The Mercers are not just supporters, they are friends. That kind of repugnant slur is undeserving of a response and will get none here.

Magerman is irrelevant. That lawsuit as "news" is silly. So why the story? It's all about "gozillionaires."

Left-wingers in the media believe “gozillionaires” are a malignant force in politics -- unless they are on the “right side of history.” The Mercers get an amazing amount of media ink -- most of it predictably negative -- because they are aren't. They are conservatives. Worse, they are rich conservatives. Their wealth is dangerous. They are dangerous. They must be exposed!

But check out the Forbes list of top billionaires. At the top of the pile sits Bill Gates, a liberal. Next in line is Warren Buffett, also a liberal. He's followed by Jeff Bezos, liberal. At #5, uber-liberal Mark Zuckerberg. At #10, Michael Bloomberg, another leftist. George Soros, a radical leftist if ever there was one, registers at #29. In fact there are liberals all over the Forbes Top 100 and Top 500.

You won’t find the Mercers in the top 1,000. 

Quick: When was the last time -- ever a time -- you remember a media story focused on the controversial views of Gates, Buffett, Bezos, Zuckerberg, Bloomberg, or Soros?

It's quite the opposite. A few months ago, the very same Esquire writer mocked the Trump people for objecting to liberal “gozillionaires.” According to Charlie Pierce, conservatives thought anti-Trump protesters in Washington DC were "some sort of a plot concocted by George Soros." To object to political activity by wealthy people on the Left is to dabble in cockamamie conspiracy theories, this being just another one of them.

Except it was true. The Media Research Center documented that Soros and his Open Society Foundations had contributed $246 million between 2010 and 2014 to 100 of the 544 groups listed as partners of the Women’s March protest the day after the Inauguration. Did the liberal media care? Were they alarmed?  They yawned. Soros is on the “right side of history.”  

These self-righteous attacks on the Mercers are nothing new. Before Bob and Rebekah Mercer there were David and Charles Koch, and before them, there was Richard Scaife, dubbed the "Godfather of the Vast Right-Wing Conspiracy" by some liberals. Twenty years ago Time magazine’s “Most Influential” list  identified Scaife as a “Conservative Agitator” who funded “rabidly anti-Clinton magazines.” Pages later, Time described George Soros as a “Philanthropist” with an “iconoclastic critique of free-market capitalism.”

Liberal “gozillionaires” are hailed as Time magazine “Persons of the Year” (Bill and Melinda Gates) or get a presidential Medal of Freedom from Obama (Buffett). It doesn’t hurt that liberal journalists can often thank these billionaires for jobs – or be grateful that their colleagues are employed by them. Buffett, Bloomberg, Zuckerberg and Bezos are all in the left wing media business now. 

The same trend applies to leftist foundations like the Ford Foundation (Endowment: $12+ billion), the Pew Charitable Trusts ($5+ billion) and the Rockefeller Foundation ($4+ billion). Toss in Carnegie, MacArthur and so many more. Controversy -- anywhere? Conservatives have nothing to match any of them. 

As we type these words it has just been announced that Soros has recently transferred a cool $18 billion to his radical Open Society Foundations, making it instantly the second largest foundation in the world after Bill and Melinda Gates.

But still it's all about the Mercers. 

&&&&&

+++++

PBS 'Frontline' Program Spews the Fake News of Scott Pruitt's 'War on the EPA'

2017-10-17

The long-running (and long-slanted) PBS documentary series Frontline returned to the airwaves on October 11 with a program aggressively titled “War on the EPA.” Everything about this production fits a conservative’s definition of “fake news.”

Just start with the title. How can Donald Trump or Scott Pruitt wage “war” on the Environmental Protection Agency when the voters gave them authority over it? “Frontline” isn’t making “news” here. It’s constructing a program-length political advertisement. When they did an hour on Vice President Dick Cheney in 2006, they titled it “The Dark Side.” We could call it “War on Dick Cheney.” It’s also similar to a Frontline episode in may titled “Bannon’s War.”

What makes it “fake” is the notion that this is in any way an objective presentation of facts, instead of a propagandistic presentation meant to beat your skull into submission. There can be facts mustered, but they are all neatly arranged into a leftist narrative.

What the Frontline producers are suggesting in their title is that the EPA is somehow the permanent territory of the environmental extremists on the Left. This makes sense coming from PBS, which considers itself the permanent territory of the Left….even though it’s supposed to be part of a democratically elected government and takes taxpayer money from voters of all persuasions.

The villain of the piece was Pruitt and the fossil-fuel lobbyists he defended against the regulators. The hero was Barack Obama. In the first minutes, PBS replayed audio of a liberal news anchor proclaiming “President Trump getting ready to take a major swipe at former President Barack Obama’s legacy on climate change.” Narrator Will Lyman added Trump was “undoing one of President Obama’s signature achievements in the fight on climate change: the Clean Power Plan.”

The theme of this long-winded commercial is established by liberal windbag Jane Mayer of The New Yorker later in the hour: "What you see now in the Trump administration is the triumph of the anti-environmental movement. They are now in control of the government and in control of the regulatory process in a kind of a brazen way we haven't seen before."

It’s “brazen”….that they were elected? That’s what put them in control. But PBS selected and included Mayer so they could have a media expert warn “really radical things are happening there, and people aren’t paying attention.”

Narrator Will Lyman read the script that Pruitt had help from Sen. James Inhofe, “the Senate’s leading climate denier.”

This is again, fake news from the moment it escapes their fancy mouths. Conservatives aren't against the environment. They don’t hate the planet they live on, or the air they breathe. They don’t deny that Earth has a climate. They don’t even deny that climate changes over time. These are cartoonish terms.

Here’s how PBS themselves acted like deniers. They couldn’t find time in an hour-long broadcast to air footage of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton promising to make coal prices and skyrocket and put coal miners out of work. They then put on a former Cato Institute fellow, Jerry Taylor, to insist the “conservative narrative” of a war on coal “was disconnected from reality.” It’s easier to make that sound unreal when you throw the evidence in a dumpster.

Facts lose to emotions. PBS also turned to New York Times reporter Eric Lipton, who describes his disgust at Scott Pruitt’s office decorations of Old West sheriffs at his old Attorney General’s office in Oklahoma. "When I first got to his office, there were these large paintings on the wall," Lipton said. "It just struck me that this was the real Wild West, that we will dispense our own justice."

This is kind of a bizarre sentence, since the scandal of Obama's "Clean Power Plan" is that he implemented "his own justice" by executive order and without Congress and found it stopped by the courts.

Liberals are in such denial about what this kind of “journalism” factory produces. If Fox News made a documentary called “War on Coal Miners” and piled it up with journalists calling Obama “radical” and “brazen” and “disconnected from reality,” wouldn’t they suggest this was a partisan production? Yes, they would. But when it comes to themselves, they’re bias deniers. And Fox News doesn’t get a dime from the taxpayers.

PS: Liz Harrington at the Washington Free Beacon pointed out that funding for this hour came from the Kendeda Fund, a very interested party: 

The documentary received major funding from Kendeda, which in turn has donated to many liberal groups that lobby for climate change regulations. On its website, Kendeda encourages "activism that promotes solutions to the social and equity challenges caused by climate change."

Kendeda has donated to numerous environmentalist activist organizations, including: $70,000 to the Sierra Club, $50,000 to Earthjustice, $50,000 to the Southern Alliance for Clean Energy, and $500,000 to the U.S. Climate Action Network in 2015

&&&&&
