+++++

Trump Thinks Scientology Should Have Tax Exemption Revoked, Longtime Aide Says

2017-11-09

President Donald Trump believes the Church of Scientology should have its tax exemption revoked, a longtime family aide and current top official at the Department of Housing and Urban Development told an actress and producer in May.

In an unsolicited Twitter message, Lynne Patton, who has worked for the Trump family since 2009, told actress Leah Remini of Trump’s position and said she would interface with the IRS directly to seek more information in an effort to initiate revocation. Remini sent HuffPost copies of Patton’s messages and has declined to comment further.

It’s not clear if Patton ever communicated with the IRS. But if Trump did express an opinion on the church and Patton did contact the IRS about it, as her message suggests, that would be a highly inappropriate level of interference with the IRS by the administration, one expert said.

“For the White House or any administration official to try and influence who the IRS targets, for whatever reason, is wrong and could result in a violation of the law,” said Larry Noble, the former general counsel of the Federal Election Commission who is now a senior director of ethics and general counsel at the Campaign Legal Center. “The IRS must make these decisions independently without any influence by the White House or administration officials.”

The White House and HUD did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

‘This Is Going To Get Done In The Next 4 Years’

Remini is a successful television actress who starred on the CBS hit sitcom “King of Queens” for nine years. She is also a former longtime member of the Church of Scientology. Since she left the church in 2013, she has dedicated most of her time to exposing abuses she and other members have faced. In 2016, A&E aired a docu-series about the church that Remini starred in and produced, called “Leah Remini: Scientology and the Aftermath.” In it, Remini, along with a former top church official Mike Rinder, uses interviews and documentary evidence to try to document abuses perpetrated by church leadership. The first season of the docu-series won an Emmy Award, and the second season is currently airing.  

In late May 2017, Patton tweeted at Remini and asked her to direct message her. Remini followed up on May 30 and said in a direct message, “Hi Lynne would love any help you can give.”

Patton responded on the same day and said:

On May 31, Patton responded to an email Remini sent the day before thanking Patton for her offer of help. Patton said:

“I look forward to doing my part to help put an end to this ongoing nightmare and blatant misuse of our IRS rules & regulations. … I want to do more research on Scientology’s history with the IRS, to date, so that I can better understand what tactics have been applied and where we can pick up.  Would you have any of this information handy?  If not, I will obtain it from the agency directly,  Kindly advise!”

If the White House or administration officials did contact the IRS about the church, IRS employees are required to document it and report it to the Office of the Inspector General. HuffPost sent an email to the office inquiring about any contacts Patton may have had with IRS officials, but has not received a response. The Church of Scientology did not respond to a request for comment.

A Loyal Family Aide

Patton heads up the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Region II, which includes New York and New Jersey. In that position, she oversees billions of federal housing dollars. Patton was appointed to that position in June. Prior to that, she had what some HUD officials saw as a failed stint as a senior adviser and director of public engagement for HUD Secretary Ben Carson.

Politico was the first to report that Patton butted heads with Carson’s staff. She organized a national tour for Carson as HUD secretary which failed to gain attention and abruptly ended after Carson got stuck in an elevator at a HUD housing project.
Patton has faced other controversies in the past few months. After she was promoted to head HUD’s Region II, several news reports questioned whether she was qualified for the role. In August of this year, The Washington Post obtained a copy of Patton’s resume. Among her job qualifications, she listed a primetime speech she made at the Republican National Convention in July 2016, her role as vice president of the Eric Trump foundation, and her work as chief of staff to members of the Trump family. Critics said the White House was favoring a longtime aide with little qualifications for the position.

Patton is beloved by the Trump family, according to multiple sources who spoke to HuffPost. The sources, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they aren’t authorized to speak to members of the press, said the Trumps have a deep appreciation for the loyalty and dedication Patton has shown to the family over the past eight years, especially during the 2016 presidential campaign.

‘The War Is Over’

The history of the Church of Scientology and its tax-exempt status is complicated and has long been under a cloud of controversy. The church first obtained its tax-exempt status in 1957, but the IRS revoked the status in 1967. At the time, the agency said the church’s activities were commercial in nature and to the benefit of its founder, L. Ron Hubbard, which would disqualify the church from exemption.

That decision launched a 26-year campaign directed by Hubbard to regain the church’s tax exemption, which he felt would lend legitimacy to the organization and allow it to amass the resources it needed to fight its enemies. After Hubbard’s death in 1986, the church’s new leader, David Miscavige, continued the efforts. 

The church launched a sophisticated operation to infiltrate federal government agencies, the New York Times reported: Members filed scores of lawsuits against the IRS and individual IRS employees; private investigators probed IRS agents’ personal affairs; and two private investigators set up a phony news bureau and posed as reporters to try to gather information about Scientology critics within the IRS.

After 26 years, in a controversial decision, the IRS granted the church and over 150 entities associated with it tax-exempt status. Days after the decision, Miscavige, whom more than 100 members have accused of various abuses, stood on a stage at the Los Angeles Sports Arena in front of 10,000 Scientologists. At the end of a long speech, Miscavige shared the news of the IRS decision, and declared “the war is over” to loud cheers by attendees.

The decision did indeed provide the cloak of legitimacy that Hubbard had wished for. The significant contributions members must make to the church are now tax-exempt. (In order to move up in the spiritual ranks, members spend $500,000 or more.) The exemption has also given the church an effective attack line when dealing with critics. Responding to allegations of slave labor and church-ordered punishment, members and staff cite religious freedom as the reason those allegations should not be further explored. The church and its staff members will often call reporters and critics “bigots” when they question the church’s policies or actions.

The tax exemption has also enriched the church greatly. The church uses its income to buy real estate that largely remains empty and to fund operations to attack its critics.

Not Trump’s Decision

An IRS decision to revoke the church’s tax exemption would be an arduous one, and would involve scores of officials. It is not a choice the president can make, according to two former top IRS officials who spoke to HuffPost. The officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because they represent clients who have matters before the IRS and don’t want to interfere in those matters by speaking publicly to a reporter.

According to an excerpt from the IRS website, “The IRS may begin a church tax inquiry only if an appropriate high-level Treasury official reasonably believes, on the basis of facts and circumstances recorded in writing, that an organization claiming to be a church or convention or association of churches may not qualify for exemption.”

After that inquiry is initiated, IRS agents would handle an investigation in the field. The decision on whether to revoke often rests with those agents and their supervisors, who report to the deputy commissioner of the IRS Tax Exempt and Government Entities Division.

Interest ― Then Silence 

In her last email to Remini sent on June 8, Patton sent a link to a New York Post article about actor Tom Cruise and his position in the Church of Scientology. “By the way, when things calm down about Comey, etc, and I get more due diligence on the IRS, I’ll circle back,” she wrote.

It’s unclear exactly what Patton was referencing with respect to former FBI Director James Comey. But the day she sent that email to Remini, Comey had testified before the Senate Intelligence Committee sharing his account of the circumstances around his termination by Trump.

Remini never heard from Patton again. Months later, Patton would be photographed publicly with a Scientologist who has quickly risen up the ranks in Trump world.


&&&&&

+++++

Donna Brazile Says She Faced Sexism From Top Hillary Clinton Aides

2017-11-06

In the sixth chapter of her new book, Hacks, former interim Democratic National Committee Chair Donna Brazile says Hillary Clinton’s top male aides engaged in sexist behavior toward her. Brazile says it prompted her to tell the group during a contentious conference call, “Gentlemen, let’s just put our dicks out on the table and see who’s got the bigger one, because I know mine is bigger than all of yours.”

Brazile’s book will be released Tuesday ― the same day some states and municipalities have critical elections. Hacks has stirred up controversy after previously published excerpts described Clinton having a deal with the Democratic Party to give her more access and power than independent Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, and Brazile putting together a contingency plan to replace Clinton as the party’s nominee with then-Vice President Joe Biden after Clinton fainted on 9/11 due to pneumonia.

(Disclosure: This reporter was a co-chair of Clinton’s presidential campaign in 2008 and has supported the Clinton foundation in the past, but no longer engages in political activity.)

The book is highly critical of Clinton’s campaign manager Robby Mook, saying, “He had the habit of nodding when you are talking, leaving you with the impression that he has listened to you, but then never seeming to follow up on what you thought you agreed on.” Brazile adds, however, that when she saw him at the DNC convention, he was “warm and treated me with respect.”

The book also says all of Mook’s top aides were men: “The young men that surrounded Robby Mook ― and they were all men in his inner circle ― had mastered a cool and removed style of politics.” However, Mook’s chief of staff, campaign chief operating officer, communications director and rapid response director were women.

Brazile says her relationship with Mook got so bad that she told Clinton’s chief administrative officer Charlie Baker, “Charlie, I’m about to kill Robby and it ain’t going to be pretty.”

A former Clinton aide who has read the excerpts that were shared with HuffPost said, “Given that she already had to walk back her claims about a rigged nomination and was caught buying into a right-wing conspiracy about Hillary’s health, I’m not sure how much more of this book people should take seriously.” Brazile’s book describes a deal that allowed Clinton “control of the party long before she became its nominee,” according to an excerpt published by Politico. But on ABC’s “This Week,” she said there was “no evidence” the nomination was rigged for Clinton.

According to the book, a big bone of contention between Brazile and Mook was Mook’s refusal to allow Brazile to hire a temporary CEO for the DNC. Brazile says she wanted to get the party back on its feet after Florida Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz resigned in response to Wikileaks emails revealing she was trying to sabotage Sanders. Brazile pushed to hire longtime Democratic aide Tom McMahon, she says.

But a source familiar with Mook’s thinking says he thought McMahon was a good choice, and on Aug. 2, 2016, Brazile announced McMahon was joining the DNC on an interim basis.

Recalling what she describes as a tension-filled conference call with Mook and his team of top aides about hiring a temporary CEO for the party, Brazile says, “I have worked with men all my life in politics and I can sense when they get to this part about not being able to deal with a woman. This is not a racial thing. This was a gender thing.”

Brazile says that she interjected at one point in the conference call and said, “You know, this does not feel like a negotiation to me. This feels like power and control. Gentlemen, let’s just put our dicks out on the table and see who’s got the bigger one, because I know mine is bigger than all of yours.” A former Clinton aide confirmed Brazile made the comment, but doesn’t believe a call focused on hiring McMahon occurred.

Clinton supporters have aggressively pushed back on assertions in Brazile’s book. Over 200 former Clinton campaign staffers signed an open letter saying they “do not recognize the campaign she portrays in the book.”


&&&&&

+++++

Netflix Takes No Action Against Danny Masterson Despite Multiple Rape Accusations

2017-11-03

One day after a HuffPost report revealed that actor Danny Masterson is the subject of a criminal investigation into allegations of rape by four women, Netflix, which produces and airs the program he co-stars on, “The Ranch,” has told HuffPost it isn’t taking any action against him.

“We are aware of the allegations and the subsequent investigation, and will respond if developments occur,” a Netflix spokesman said in a statement emailed to HuffPost.

Four women have accused Masterson of violently raping them in the early 2000s. One year ago, the Los Angeles Police Department opened an investigation into the claims and found the evidence compelling enough to refer the case to the Los Angeles County district attorney. The investigation has been overseen by one of the top prosecutors in the office, Reinhold Mueller.

One of Masterson’s accusers initially filed an LAPD report in 2004 saying that she was raped in 2003 while she was “passed out” and that, when she awoke and realized Masterson was raping her, she struggled with him until he choked her and she passed out again. The case was not referred to the district attorney at the time after more than 50 members of the Church of Scientology, which both Masterson and his accuser belonged to, submitted affidavits to the LAPD denying the woman’s account. The tactic is a common one for the organization, which is known for using fear and intimidation in order to silence anyone perceived as attacking Scientology.

Two of Masterson’s accusers initially reported being raped directly to the Church of Scientology. Scientology rules say that members of the church must never report a Scientologist to law enforcement. The punishment would be immediate expulsion from the church, which would include family and friends being ordered not to associate with or speak to the banished member.

HuffPost was the first to reveal that there is a fourth accuser who has been interviewed by the district attorney’s office. Additional information about that accuser is not available.

The evidence that the district attorney has amassed as part of this case has been described as “compelling” and “overwhelming” by multiple sources and includes audiotapes, emails sent to and from Scientology officers at the time the alleged rapes happened, forensic computer evidence and a threatening handwritten letter Masterson sent to one of the alleged victims.

HuffPost was the first to report that there were concerns in the district attorney’s office that the investigation had inexplicably stalled despite the substantial evidence.

A spokesman for the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office has declined to comment on the case.

Netflix announced that “The Ranch: Part 4” would premiere on its website in December. The company made the announcement on Oct. 17, seven months after news of the LAPD investigation was made public by journalist Tony Ortega and subsequently reported by multiple news outlets.

According to a source familiar with “The Ranch” production schedule, Masterson and co-star Ashton Kutcher are in the process of filming Part 5 of “The Ranch.”

Two days after a BuzzFeed report that detailed a sexual misconduct allegation against actor and producer Kevin Spacey by actor Anthony Rapp, Netflix suspended filming of Spacey’s “House of Cards” series. It’s unclear why it hasn’t made a similar decision when Masterson is the subject of a years-long law enforcement investigation involving four allegations of rape.

A Netflix spokesman has not immediately replied to follow-up questions sent after its statement about not taking action against Masterson.

UPDATE: Nov. 7 ― The Church of Scientology provided a statement to HuffPost late Monday, saying that it “has no practice or policy forbidding the reporting of criminal wrongdoing allegedly committed by Scientologists or anyone else, nor does the Church expel, let alone punish, members who report crimes.”



&&&&&

+++++

Exclusive: Lawyer Of Woman Who Says Brett Ratner Raped Her Slams Defamation Suit

2017-11-02

Hours after the Los Angeles Times published a story on Wednesday detailing sexual misconduct allegations by six women, some of them well-known actresses, against film director and producer Brett Ratner, he chose to sue. Instead of pursuing litigation against any of the women named in the LA Times piece, he charged defamation against former Hollywood talent agency assistant Melanie Kohler, who had written a Facebook post detailing rape allegations against him that she deleted two hours after it went up.

Kohler now has a powerful force at her side fighting Ratner’s suit: Roberta Kaplan, the lawyer who led the team representing Edith Windsor against the United States in the Supreme Court case that ruled the federal government had to recognize same-sex marriages. Kaplan is representing Kohler on a pro bono basis.

After the New York Times, HuffPost and the New Yorker published allegations of sexual misconduct against disgraced movie producer Harvey Weinstein, Kohler was inspired to share her experience with Ratner and wrote a long account she posted on her Facebook page.

Ratner’s three-page complaint against Kohler (which is quite short for a major claim of defamation, according to three lawyers who spoke to HuffPost) quotes from three sentences from her Facebook post, which HuffPost is the first outlet to publish in its entirety. HuffPost received the post five days ago, but at the time it had no name attached to it.

My hands are shaking even as I try to write this. It’s not something I’ve ever told anyone in my entire life. Not even my closest friends at the time. Brett Ratner raped me. He is a famous director and producer in Hollywood.

If there is any chance of changing the hollywood culture, the american culture, it has to happen now while people are listening.

I tell this story in hopes that if he’s done it to others that they might have the confidence to come forward. And if he hasn’t, that maybe he can be accountable for the way he’s treated the nobodies of the world or at least the way he treated me. Even if he treats all the somebodies of the world with respect and decency, he is not a public monster like Harvey and I don’t think anyone has much bad to say about him professionally, that doesn’t mean he can do this in the dark shadows of the night when he thinks no one is looking. He was a predator and a rapist on at least on one night in Hollywood about 12 years ago.

It happened when I worked at Endeavor Talent Agency in hollywood. It was 2004 or 2005. I won’t go into the details here to spare the people who don’t want to hear them but I’m willing to share my story with anyone who needs to hear it.

Long story short, he preyed on me as a drunk girl who was alone at a club at the end of the night, he took me back to Robert Evans house, he forced himself upon me after I said no and no and no again, and then left me there. He just got up, didn’t say a word, got in his car and left and I laid there humiliated and broken on the floor. The rest of the night is fuzzy, I must have stumbled out of the house and called a cab and I went home and erased it from my mind.

I’m embarrassed, humiliated, ashamed, and wish I could go back to forgetting it ever happened. But if I do that, if we all do that, then it keeps happening. We have to come forward. I can’t be an advocate for women speaking out if I don’t speak out too.

Brett Ratner raped me. I’m saying his name, I’m saying it publicly. Now at least I can look at myself in the mirror and not feel like part of me is a coward or a hypocrite. I’m standing up and saying this happened to me and it was not ok.

Come what may, it is the right thing to do.

Less than two hours after Kohler posted her account, she received a threatening phone call from Hollywood litigator Marty Singer, who represents Ratner. According to a source familiar with the call, Kohler felt intimidated by Singer’s threats of litigation and deleted her post. Singer also represents actor Danny Masterson (whom four women have accused of rape) and used to represent Bill Cosby in his claims against some of the women who accused him of sexual misconduct.

On Sunday, three days before the Los Angeles Times published its investigation into Ratner, Singer also sent an email to the lawyer who was representing Kohler at the time. “Unless your client retracts the story to the LA Times today, Mr. Ratner will immediately sue her for millions of dollars,” he wrote. It’s unknown if Kohler spoke to the LA Times, but she is not named in the story.

In the paper’s detailed report published Wednesday, actress Natasha Henstridge said Ratner in the early ’90s prevented her from leaving his New York apartment after a party, started to masturbate in front of her and forced her to perform oral sex. In an interview with the Times, Henstridge said, “He strong-armed me in a real way. He physically forced himself on me. At some point, I gave in and he did his thing.”

Actress Olivia Munn said Ratner masturbated in front of her when she went to his trailer on the set of one of his films in 2004. Four other women detailed allegations of sexual misconduct in the same Los Angeles Times story.

Ratner, through Singer, denied any allegations of sexual misconduct.

The movie director is facing allegations from two well-known actresses who likely have more resources at their disposal than Kohler, who runs a small business with her husband in Hawaii. The actresses detailed their allegations in interviews with a major publication, and unlike Kohler’s Facebook post, their stories won’t be deleted.

Kaplan sees Ratner’s move as a commonly used intimidation tactic: Instead of suing the famous, wealthy actresses who have accused him of misconduct in a prominent newspaper, Ratner is going after a woman who is no longer in the entertainment business, has no fame or significant financial resources, and whose story was public for less than two hours. Kaplan told HuffPost that she believes Ratner is picking the most vulnerable accuser to make an example out of her.

“It’s hardly a surprise that they picked one woman to victimize again in an effort to bully other women into silence,” Kaplan said in a statement emailed to HuffPost. “Mr. Ratner and his lawyers can try to erase the truth through threats and intimidation, but courts decide cases based on the facts and the law. So our response to Mr. Ratner’s frivolous, four-page complaint is short and simple: See you in court.”

Bill Burton, a former White House deputy press secretary and a managing director of the public affairs firm SKDKnickerbocker, is also representing Kohler pro bono. “The goal of these lawsuits is to intimidate women,” he said in an email to HuffPost. “Our goal is to stop the behavior. Melanie will not be intimidated.”

After the Los Angeles Times published its story, a source told the paper that Warner Brothers won’t renew a production deal it has with Ratner.

“In light of the allegations being made, I am choosing to personally step away from all Warner Bros.-related activities,” Ratner said in a statement released to the media. “I don’t want to have any possible negative impact to the studio until these personal issues are resolved.”



&&&&&

+++++

How Harvey Weinstein And Kenneth Cole Covered Up A Shady Deal

2017-10-18

It was a surreal encounter, even before Harvey Weinstein mentioned the allegations of rape.

Weinstein was meeting with two attorneys. One, he was trying to undermine: Thomas Ajamie, a Texas trial lawyer, was investigating a highly unusual financial transaction involving Weinstein and the American Foundation for AIDS Research, a nonprofit founded in the early ’80s to help find a cure for AIDS. The other, he’d recently managed to co-opt: Lisa Bloom, a lawyer known for representing victims of sexual harassment. Weinstein had recently agreed to option Bloom’s book about the Trayvon Martin case. But what Ajamie, and the public, didn’t know at the time was that Bloom was also one of Weinstein’s lawyers. Bloom, who had become known for parading victims of sexual harassment out in front of cameras, was now working with a man who would soon be exposed as a sexual predator.

The three were in Park City, Utah, at the Sundance Film Festival this past January, and for two hours they had what two sources later described as a “rambling” conversation. Weinstein held forth on subjects ranging from the professional to the personal. The very personal. At one point, Weinstein declared he’d had “sex with many women in Hollywood.” It was a common boast for him. Fifteen women who have had encounters with Weinstein have told me that he would often rattle off a laundry list of famous women he has slept with.

Ajamie asked Weinstein, who is married, if he was admitting to cheating. Weinstein said he was, and that having sex with famous women in Hollywood was to be expected, that he was a “powerful guy” and that “everyone wants an Academy Award.”

Then Weinstein said to Ajamie, “I know you’re telling people that I rape women.”

With that, Weinstein made explicit what had only been whispered about: The two scandals ― Weinstein’s controversial transaction with amfAR, and allegations of sexual misconduct against him ― were intertwined.

Indeed, over the next few months, reporters from at least two media outlets, The New York Times and NBC News, would catch wind of the amfAR affair in the course of reporting on Weinstein’s alleged sexual misconduct. The Times published a comprehensive investigative article about the amfAR scandal by one of the reporters who would soon break the Weinstein sex harassment story. NBC decided against running the amfAR/Weinstein story altogether, infuriating Rich McHugh, the reporter who worked on it, according to three sources outside NBC News. 

Multiple sources told me that a senior digital editor at NBC News was the one who decided that none of the source material related to the amfAR story moved the story materially past what had been reported in two other major publications. 

McHugh also worked alongside reporter Ronan Farrow on his story about Weinstein’s alleged sexual misconduct. After eight months of reporting by Farrow and McHugh, NBC cleared Farrow to take the story to the New Yorker. 

I have obtained most of the documents NBC News had in its possession, according to three sources outside NBC News, and am reporting on the contents of those documents in this story.

How Weinstein fought the dawning amfAR scandal is an illustration of the ferocious manner in which he had long exercised his clout, and of the impunity he long could count on, thanks to the help of some well-placed friends. It also reveals something fundamental about the power he enjoyed, at least until recently: Everything, from the money to the philanthropy to the sex to the bullying to the coverups enacted on Weinstein’s behalf, was connected.

For this story I spoke to over 20 sources inside and outside amfAR, NBC Universal, The New York Times and others with direct knowledge of the circumstances of this controversy. I also spoke to former Weinstein Company executives, former Miramax executives and various consultants that Weinstein used to have on retainer. All of the sources spoke on the condition of anonymity because they aren’t authorized to speak to the press by their respective employers, don’t want to be exposed to potential litigation for violating non-disclosure agreements, or fear reprisal for speaking about powerful people on-record with a member of the press. I also reviewed internal amfAR board communications, confidential reports and communications with the New York Attorney General’s office, which were provided by multiple sources.

‘Nothing About This Deal Feels Right To Me’

In the spring of 2015, Harvey Weinstein had an idea. He would solve a nagging financial obligation he had to one organization while supporting an organization that brought him praise from celebrities and other powerful figures in the entertainment business. Weinstein relished his role as a patron of the arts and progressive causes, and this idea would burnish his reputation in both capacities.

The vehicle would be a charity auction for amfAR, an organization he had supported for decades. Weinstein needed to raise $600,000 for the nonprofit American Repertory Theater, which is associated with Harvard University but is set up as a separate organization. The theater had staged a trial run of the Broadway musical “Finding Neverland,” which Weinstein had produced, and had an arrangement whereby it would reimburse Weinstein and other show investors for money they put into the trial run, provided the investors got third parties to donate the amounts.

Weinstein had several items to offer amfAR for an upcoming fundraising auction at an event in Cannes, France, including photo shoots with the fashion photographer Mario Testino and tickets to an Oscar party. The items themselves had cost him nothing: Testino donated his time, and the Oscar party was hosted by Weinstein’s company. But he needed the proceeds from the auction to be split. What no one outside of Weinstein’s company apparently knew at the time was that, on June 1, 2015, Weinstein was facing a hard deadline, set by ART, to wire $600,000. If he missed the deadline, he and his investors wouldn’t be repaid for the contributions they’d already made to ART.

Weinstein spoke to Kenneth Cole, the fashion designer and longtime non-executive chairman of amfAR. They agreed to split the proceeds of the lots providing up to $1.2 million, with half the money going to amfAR and the other half to ART. Any proceeds above $1.2 million would belong to amfAR. Weinstein needed exactly $600,000 for ART, so this worked well for his purposes. But if he was interested in helping ART, why not push for a 50/50 split on all proceeds? Multiple sources told me Weinstein never pushed Cole for anything beyond $600,000. Only later would The New York Times reveal why he needed to send that exact amount to ART.

As a rule, amfAR didn’t participate in splitting the revenue from auctions. In a 2014 email, amfAR CFO Brad Jensen told a Weinstein executive that amfAR CEO Kevin Frost had always declined offers to split auction proceeds with other organizations. But Weinstein didn’t like to follow the rules, and he had a willing participant in Cole.

AmfAR’s relationship with Weinstein had always been fraught. Weinstein brought big celebrities to their galas and procured coveted items for the famous auction at the annual Cannes benefit. But even though amfAR is a charitable organization, Weinstein didn’t leave behind his habit of bullying people into submission. He often didn’t pay for his tables at amfAR galas until he was pushed and begged, and then he would get angry and list off the donors and celebrities he would bring to the events. Weinstein would also often join galas at the last minute and disrupt well-organized plans, according to two sources familiar with his relationship with amfAR.

Some board members began asking if Weinstein was worth the trouble, but Cole was adamant that the film mogul’s support was critical.  No one said no to Weinstein.

What’s remarkable about this transaction and all the chaos it has caused is it involved less than $1 million ― a significant amount for many people, but not necessarily for Cole and Weinstein. “To think, they could have avoided all of this if one of them just figured out an easier way to get $600,000 to ART,” one amfAR board member told me.

At every turn, staff members tried to sound the alarm over the Weinstein deal, especially amfAR CEO Frost and CFO Jensen. Staff emails I reviewed are filled with concerned statements, whistleblowing and out-and-out refusals to engage in behavior the members thought to be unethical. Their calls for accountability were largely ignored.

Five board members have since resigned in protest amid the scandal. Four are staying, but are standing up to Cole privately and publicly. Others have served as a rubber stamp for Cole, and yet others appear to have obstructed the investigation into this transaction.

On May 21, 2015, at the auction in Cannes, UK billionaire Sanjay Hinduja paid $244,640 for a package called the “Hollywood Experience” that included the Oscar party tickets; socialite Lisa Giuliani paid $381,100 for one Testino photo session; and Singapore billionaire Carrie Perrodo paid $278,000 for a second Testino photo session. After adjustments, the total for the lots was $909,669.

After the auction was completed, and for unknown reasons, Cole and Weinstein agreed to change their oral agreement from a 50/50 split. Instead, ART would receive $600,000 and amfAR would get $309,669 of the revenue. For years, amfAR had declined opportunities to split auction revenue ― now, it was accepting a third. I asked Cole about agreeing to a new split of the proceeds. In an email from a spokesman, Cole said that the way I characterized the decisionmaking process behind the split “is not true.” Emails I reviewed conflict with Cole’s statement.

Most people who spoke to me about the deal agree that while the auction agreement was messy, the handling of the transaction after the auction was complete was what gave rise to the scandal. 

I asked Cole if he regretted approving the transaction with Weinstein. In an email from a spokesman, Cole said, “amfAR has been, and remains, a global force that seeks to end the scourge of HIV/AIDS. This transaction was reviewed and approved consistent with accepted governance for 501 C 3’s and it netted amfAR significant funds to advance its lifesaving work.”

I also asked Cole if he would have handled the aftermath of the transaction differently. “No. It strengthened amfAR’s ability to fund the research that is required to conquer HIV/AIDS,” he said.

Cole’s response is surprising considering what the public has learned about Weinstein, the chaos this transaction has caused internally at amfAR, the public scrutiny amfAR has faced as a result of the investigation into the transaction, and the loss of five board members who resigned in the wake of the transaction scandal. The deal that netted amfAR $300,000 has cost it much more in legal and consultant fees, not to mention revenue lost from supporters who are no longer raising or donating money.

Frost initially told Cole in an email on May 24, 2015, that the money wouldn’t be paid until the revenue had been booked and the lot had been fulfilled — meaning that the buyers had redeemed the services or experiences they’d paid for.

But toward the end of the month, amfAR executives started receiving urgent emails from Weinstein Company executives saying the $600,000 payment had to land in ART’s bank account on June 1. This caused some confusion. Why did the money have to land on June 1 exactly, if this transfer was a donation to a charitable organization that appeared not to be in any financial trouble?

Weinstein Company executives made a chaotic and erratic push for the money to land on June 1, according to a flurry of emails I have reviewed. In one day, Weinstein Company executives and Cole’s assistant traded emails 10 times with amfAR executives. In one, Cole’s assistant emails Frost and says, “Not sure what the deadline of June 1 means but [Weinstein’s] assistant just called again to confirm all is in order.”

But the auction lots hadn’t been paid on yet, much less fulfilled. In fact, there was no way to know if the money would ever come in. Occasionally auction bidders don’t pay on their lots. AmfAR could be left holding the bag if it wired out the money before receiving the auction payments and fulfilling the lots.

Five sources who were familiar with the agreement with ART confirmed that the $600,000 had to land on June 1, 2015, in order to meet a deadline the organization set that would allow investors in the Broadway-bound “Finding Neverland” to recoup the money they’d given to ART. This, along with many other details about the transaction, was first reported by The New York Times in an article published on Sept. 23. If Weinstein didn’t have that money in by June 1, the window would’ve been shut.

Finally, Weinstein agreed to wire $600,000 from his personal funds (via a holding company) to amfAR, provided that amfAR wire the same amount to ART on June 1. Emails reveal that Weinstein expected to be repaid $600,000 by amfAR once it had received the auction revenue, but before the lots could be fulfilled.

This transaction further complicated matters, intertwining Weinstein’s money with amfAR and ART’s.

On June 1, 2015 amfAR CEO Frost emailed amfAR CFO Jensen to express concern about the transaction that Cole had agreed to.

I’m going on record on here to express my concerns about this whole process. I have expressed to Kenneth [Cole] that I don’t believe amfAR should execute this transfer of funds prior to hearing a judgement from our auditors. Nothing about this deal feels right to me and I believe we have not done due diligence to understand exactly what this money is being directed to or why amfAR is being used to facilitate these transfers. Kenneth has heard my concerns and despite that is directing amfAR to execute this transfer to ART in fulfillment of an agreement he made with Harvey Weinstein.
By the time Frost had sent the email, it was too late. Cole had already pushed the transaction through.

On June 10, 2015, an attorney for ART called Frost to express surprise that amfAR had wired $600,000 to the theater, according to five sources with knowledge of the conversation. The attorney asked Frost what the donation was for, and Frost said that he didn’t know.

Frost had every reason to claim ignorance. Cole later told a lawyer hired to investigate the transaction on behalf of the board that he hadn’t asked Weinstein what the money was for, saying he’d rather not know.

An ART spokeswoman declined to answer questions about whether the theater knew about the auction split in advance, and also declined to comment about the specific agreement it had with Weinstein. In a statement, she said, “The A.R.T. received $600,000 in 2015 through an Amfar event at which proceeds from some auction items were earmarked for the A.R.T. It is not our practice to disclose the specific terms of our agreements.”

On June 25, 2015, amfAR board member Vin Roberti, a lobbyist and public affairs consultant, met with the board treasurer, John Simons, according to two sources familiar with the meeting. Roberti expressed concern with the transaction, and Simons told Roberti he would investigate.

Roberti, along with amfAR staff like Frost, worried that this transaction ran afoul of IRS charity rules, which say that “an individual is not entitled to unjustly enrich himself at the organization’s expense.” Was Weinstein moving money through amfAR to ART in order to help his for-profit play, by which he would ultimately enrich himself?

Weinstein told Cole that he wanted his money back as soon as the auction lots were paid for, according to five sources. Frost sent an email detailing concerns about Weinstein’s demand. Cole responded: “Sorry. It is what we agreed. It is what we discuss s [sic] before I called him. Not ideal. I sure hope he [Weinstein] deliver on NY Gala which is also what was discussed.”

Frost then followed up with an email to Jensen:

As you will see from the email below Kenneth is now informing me that in his agreement with Harvey he consented to repaying Harvey’s ‘loan’ as soon as we received this money from the donors for the auction lots in question. That has never been my position and I made that abundantly clear to Kenneth at the time. He knows that if we repay Harvey we are now at significant risk that one or more of these auction lots does not fulfill. If that happens, we are out not only the money to ART, but also the money from the auction lot themselves. At the time this was unfolding, I even put that in an email to Harvey’s person - Charlie Prince. Charlie has now come back to me asking that Harvey’s money to be repaid immediately.

I don’t even know what to say to Kenneth at this point. I did not and would not agree to these terms. I fear that if I tell him that I am unwilling to go along, it will cause a significant rift. That said, I’m not willing to go along. How should I proceed? 
Cole emailed Frost, saying he was comfortable paying Weinstein immediately after amfAR got its money ― on one condition: Weinstein should agree to reimburse amfAR if any of the lots fell through.

Jensen refused to go along with the arrangement. Simons, as board treasurer, negotiated the agreement terms with Weinstein executives. Jensen signed the agreement with Weinstein in late August of 2015; I reviewed it for this story.

On Sept. 1, 2015, amfAR wired $600,000 to Weinstein, three months after he’d “loaned” the money to send to ART.

At a board executive committee meeting in late September 2015, Roberti and another board member, Dr. Merv Silverman, called for an investigation into the transaction and its aftermath. Yet again, Simons, who had told Roberti in June that he would conduct an investigation, said he would look into the matter.

By February 2016, Simons had yet to launch an investigation into the transaction and wasn’t returning phone calls or emails from board members. In an executive session of the board, several members called for an independent investigation run by a law firm, according to five sources familiar with the meeting. The board formed a special committee to select an attorney and lead the investigation into the transaction.

I asked Simons why he didn’t launch an investigation, even though he had committed to looking into the transaction. Through a spokesman, he said that following his inquiries, he “didn’t think it was appropriate to do any additional investigation.”

The executive committee of the amfAR board disagreed, and in March 2016, amfAR retained Thomas Ajamie, a Texas trial lawyer, to conduct the independent investigation into the transaction. According to three sources, he offered to conduct the investigation and compile a report pro bono, but he wanted the organization to reimburse him for expenses. (Three sources with knowledge of the billings say his expenses were just over $40,000.)

At this point, some amfAR board members and staff whom I spoke with said they felt relieved. “I thought now that there was a lawyer and special committee looking into this that we would be able to put it behind us,” one board member told me.

They had no idea that the entrance of Ajamie into the equation, through no fault of his own, would dramatically complicate what was once seen as a simple split of auction proceeds.

‘Kenneth Was Livid. This Report Wasn’t Supposed To Be About Him’

Kenneth Cole made his fortune as a shoe designer and manufacturer. But these days, he’s famous for his provocative and controversial AIDS and gun control activism. Cole is also deeply rooted in the political world. He’s donated hundreds of thousands of dollars to federal and state candidates. His wife, film producer Maria Cuomo Cole, is New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s sister.

Cole’s supporters and detractors agree on a few things: that amfAR’s annual revenue haul wouldn’t be where it is now if it hadn’t been for Cole, and that prior to this scandal he was unfailingly kind and generous.

But that’s where the agreement ends. Detractors say Cole’s obsession with staying on as board chair and his refusal to accept term limits are not only destroying his reputation, they’re also destroying amfAR. And his refusal to accept that he made a mistake with the Weinstein transaction has raised so much suspicion that some board members and senior staff say they no longer trust him. A lot of that suspicion was cemented by how Cole reacted to Ajamie’s investigation.

As part of his investigation, Ajamie was said to have reviewed internal documents and emails, and interviewed 12 people, including board members and amfAR staff, as well as Cole.

The one person Ajamie didn’t get the chance to interview was Weinstein.

Ajamie’s report revealed significant stonewalling by Weinstein. Over the course of three months, Ajamie attempted to interview Weinstein multiple times. His point of contact with Weinstein was Charlie Prince, vice president of business and legal affairs at the Weinstein Company. According to the report, Ajamie started to reach out to Prince on June 14, 2016, and tried more than 10 times to interview Weinstein. Ajamie told Prince that he wanted to speak with Weinstein about the transaction and “in particular we wanted to know why amfAR funds were used, why there was a June 1 deadline, and what the funds were used for.”

Prince never made Weinstein available for an interview. Weinstein would agree to be interviewed only if lawyers weren’t present, otherwise “this will become like a deposition,” Prince is quoted as saying in the report.

Since Ajamie was never afforded the opportunity to interview Weinstein, he said in the report, “We must infer from Mr. Weinstein’s stonewalling that the transaction was indeed illegitimate in some way.”

The conclusions of the eight-page report were damning for amfAR, the board and especially Cole. Ajamie called Weinstein’s June 1, 2015, deadline for ART to receive the $600,000 “highly questionable.” He said the transaction “exposed amfAR to material risks to its financial integrity and reputation.” He said the fact that amfAR did not disclose that some of the proceeds would be shared with ART was a “fraud on the bidders.”

With respect to Cole, Ajamie said that he “took over management’s role by directing this transaction himself rather than leaving it to the CEO. Having done so, he then intentionally declined to inquire into the purpose of the transaction, thinking it better to not ask questions.” 

Ajamie added that Cole, during his interview, said he should be the only person to speak with Weinstein about the transaction. Ajamie said, “This was improper, given that Mr. Cole is one of the subjects of this investigation.” In an email from a spokesman, Cole said “this ‘statement’ is a false representation of the facts.” When I asked what the facts were, the spokesman said Cole wasn’t available to respond for the rest of the day.

“Kenneth was livid. This report wasn’t supposed to be about him.
an amfAR board member on Ajamie’s report to the board
Board members said they were alarmed by Cole’s reported attempts to close off Weinstein from communicating with anyone about the transaction. “Could he [Cole] look any more guilty,” one member said to me in a text message.

Three sources familiar with Cole’s reaction to the report said Cole was angry he had been accused of any wrongdoing. “Kenneth was livid,” one board member said. “This report wasn’t supposed to be about him.”

On Sept. 30, 2016, the board interviewed Cole and Frost separately. Cole was angry and offended that he had been made to go through the investigation process, and bristled at how he had been treated, according to multiple sources. Two board members said to be aligned with Cole, Patricia Matson and Don Capoccia, said they were insulted as well by the insinuations in the report. They refused to allow the board to interview Ajamie. The rest of the board could have objected, but board members told me they were so shocked by the move that they failed to speak up.

Without the opportunity to interview Ajamie, the board would have to rely on an eight-page report to respond to a scandal that, internally, was only growing and would soon intersect with allegations of sexual misconduct by Weinstein.

‘Tom Started To Hear Things About Harvey.’

One evening in October 2016, Ajamie had cocktails with another attorney, Lisa Bloom, in Los Angeles. Ajamie had recently submitted his highly confidential and highly controversial report to the board of amfAR.

It was just before the 2016 presidential election, and then-candidate Donald Trump was facing an ever-growing number of women who were accusing him of sexual misconduct, ranging from harassment to assault. Ajamie had reached out to Bloom via email initially in an effort to see if there might be the possibility of representing some Trump accusers.

Toward the end of their conversation, Ajamie brought up the sexual misconduct allegations against another famous New Yorker: Harvey Weinstein. After Ajamie had submitted his report to the board, he began hearing from people who’d contact him anonymously, saying they were aware of sexual misconduct allegations against Weinstein.

Ajamie brought these allegations up with Bloom to see if she had heard about them as well. Bloom said she hadn’t, but agreed that they should stay in touch.

A recounting of their conversation is based on interviews with four people with direct knowledge of what was discussed and an interview with Bloom conducted by the amfAR committee investigating the Weinstein transaction. In that interview, Bloom recounted her discussions with Ajamie.

Ajamie declined to comment, citing attorney-client privilege. 

What most people with knowledge of the events agree on is if Ajamie hadn’t brought up the allegations of Weinstein’s sexual misconduct to Bloom, a lot of backstabbing would have been avoided, and a lot of amfAR donor funds would have been saved.

While Weinstein and Cole had been close, and while Cole was willing to do almost anything it took to please a powerful fundraiser for the organization, they now had a common goal in mind: Cole needed to bury the negative report about the Weinstein transaction, which was causing grave concern among some amfAR board members. Weinstein, too, had an interest in burying the report ― he wanted Ajamie to stop poking around in allegations of his sexual misconduct. These allegations would burst into public view one year after Ajamie and Bloom had drinks, with The New York Times’ bombshell report chronicling years of sexual harassment accusations and payoffs by Weinstein.

‘I Will Know How You Vote.’

Cole was desperate to find a way to move past the report, according to multiple sources. On Oct. 13, 2016, he asked an amfAR staff member how he could turn the report around in his favor, according to two sources familiar with the conversation.

On Oct. 17, 2016, he called an emergency board meeting to propose an idea: find a new law firm to look into the matter ― and into Ajamie.

Weinstein was also desperate. He’d begun hearing more and more that Ajamie was asking questions about alleged sexual misconduct, even though Ajamie was only receiving tips and had asked Bloom about the rumors. Ajamie was spending most of his time looking into whether Weinstein had participated in similar transactions with other charitable organizations, according to several emails he sent to outside parties.

Just minutes before the emergency board meeting, Cole contacted Roberti. Weinstein, Cole told him, was threatening to sue amfAR for spreading false allegations about sexual misconduct by Weinstein.

During the emergency board meeting, which took place via telephone, Cole suggested a new law firm be hired to investigate the report and Ajamie. According to three sources present at the meeting, most of the board objected to the meeting taking place at all, saying they hadn’t received proper notice. The board agreed to hold another meeting five days later.

In the second meeting, Cole told the board that Weinstein had vowed to sue “and investigate” every board member. He also said the mogul was upset about a letter Ajamie had sent him alleging that he had engaged in sexual misconduct. When some of the board members pushed back at that idea that Ajamie would have sent such a letter, Cole conceded that it may have been an email.

Six sources confirm that Ajamie sent no such letter to Weinstein.

But, Ajamie had written to someone else, filmmaker Barry Avrich, about the allegations. That email ended up in the hands of Weinstein’s lawyer David Boies. In it, Ajamie asked Avrich about allegations of wrongdoing.

Why would Ajamie ask Avrich about Weinstein? The story, like every story in this saga, is complicated. Avrich is a documentarian and was working on a film about Weinstein in 2010 when he came under enormous pressure from the movie mogul. Weinstein variously tried to threaten and charm Avrich into submission, telling him in a phone call: “Barry, this is not over. I don’t want you to make the film, and I’m not through with you,” but to no avail. And in various encounters, Weinstein repeatedly praised Avrich as a superb filmmaker and said that when the day came for Weinstein to have a documentary made about him, Avrich would be the one he would work with. While Avrich was in the process of selling the documentary, he received a lucrative offer from IFC (formerly the Independent Film Channel) that he couldn’t turn down.

Soon, he discovered that Weinstein had engineered the IFC acquisition, and the film had been cut down dramatically. Avrich’s documentary was soon given a minimal release and all but disappeared.

It was Ajamie’s email to Avrich that sent Weinstein on the hunt for Ajamie. Weinstein, apparently, didn’t want anyone bringing up the accusations with Avrich, who knew more about Weinstein than almost anyone else outside his family.

On Oct. 22, 2016, Weinstein called board member Roberti. The timing of the call was curious: About 30 minutes after Weinstein called, Roberti was supposed to join a second emergency board meeting via teleconference. It’s unclear how Weinstein found out about the call, but he had a demand: Roberti was to vote to approve Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher as the law firm to investigate the amfAR-ART transaction and to advise amfAR on other corporate governance issues. Roberti recounted the conversation with Weinstein during the emergency board phone call, three sources who were on the call confirmed.

Weinstein told Roberti he was willing to pay the $600,000 back to amfAR in an effort to calm the waters, and hoped they could make things right again. Then the conversation moved on to hiring Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher. Weinstein accused Roberti of moving Ajamie in to conduct an investigation he felt was shoddy. (Roberti had not hired Ajamie.) Roberti also recounted Weinstein saying to him, “We’re going to get this other person in there. I’m gonna know how you voted.” He was apparently referring to Orin Snyder, a partner at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher.

Roberti ended up voting against Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher. But the firm was hired anyway, and was charged with investigating the infamous transaction, the Ajamie report and amfAR’s corporate governance procedures in general.

‘A Commercial Transaction’

Orin Snyder is a 55-year-old trial lawyer whom the Verge once called “the deadliest lawyer in tech.” He has represented companies like Facebook and Uber in court.

Snyder has significant experience in entertainment litigation. He has represented media conglomerates like NBC Universal and Warner Music, as well as motion picture studios like Sony Pictures. He’s had a robust celebrity representation practice as well, including Jennifer Lopez, the Rolling Stones, Jerry Seinfeld, Jessica Seinfeld, Paul Simon and Bruce Springsteen.

Still, most of the board couldn’t figure out how Snyder came into the picture. And some board members were wondering who Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher was hired to protect ― amfAR and the board, or Cole and Weinstein? In an email, Snyder told me that Don Capoccia, an amfAR board member whom he “had never met,” reached out to him “based on my experience representing charities.”

Over the next six months, Snyder regularly attacked Ajamie, questioning his motives and taking actions that protected Weinstein and Cole over the general interests of the organization, according to more than 10 sources.

Almost immediately, Snyder’s statements began to raise red flags with senior amfAR staff and some board members. In early December 2016, sources say, he told three amfAR staff members ― Frost, Jensen, and amfAR’s general counsel John Logan ― that the $600,000 transaction “was to satisfy a commercial obligation,” which could be against IRS rules related to private benefit.

Snyder also told staff members that he had a copy of the agreement between Weinstein and ART but refused to share copies. In an email from a spokeswoman, Snyder said he obtained the agreement from Weinstein’s attorney. “Copies were not distributed to the board because they were provided to Gibson Dunn by Mr. Weinstein’s counsel on the condition that Gibson Dunn not provide copies given the confidentiality restrictions in that agreement. At the January board meeting, we also offered any board member the opportunity to review the agreements in our offices.” Multiple sources familiar with that board meeting said that Snyder never offered to allow board members to review agreements in the Gibson Dunn offices.

Board members were assured that they would be informed anytime billings went above $50,000, but they weren’t. Instead, six months after signing the retainer agreement, amfAR received its first bill from Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher: $900,000. This would later be reduced to $450,000.

In an email, a Gibson Dunn spokeswoman said, “Gibson Dunn agreed, on its own initiative, to offer its services on a partial pro bono basis, which resulted in offering a 50% discount.”

‘A Charitable Transaction’

A month after Snyder told staff members that the $600,000 transaction was “to satisfy a commercial transaction,” he told the special committee overseeing his work that the transaction was a charitable contribution. Through a spokesman, Snyder said it is “factually incorrect” to say he made conflicting statements. “Gibson Dunn advised the Audit Committee and the Board that the transaction was a charitable contribution made to Harvard’s ART pursuant to agreements between ART and TWC concerning the developmental production of  ‘Finding Neverland,’” he said in an email.

Snyder’s response is correct, but doesn’t address what he reportedly said to three staff members: that the transaction was commercial in nature.

Some board members who were familiar with Snyder’s comments about the transaction said they began to become suspicious of the lawyer’s motives.

On Jan. 29, 2017, in a board conference intended to allow members to express their concerns about Snyder’s investigation, Cole’s obsession with maintaining power was on full display. Prior to the meeting, Kevin McClatchy, a board member, passed around a resolution that would establish term limits for board officers and would also give Cole a soft landing and retirement as non-executive board chair. The proposal, the contents of which I have reviewed, was intended to ease Cole out of the chairmanship he had held for 12 years with great fanfare. It would also have immediately ended Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher’s representation of amfAR. Cole denied in an email that he is against term limits: “I never expressed a reluctance on this issue, and in fact, have proposed term limits over the years. Nevertheless, I serve at the pleasure the board.”

Yet Cole, who has served as non-executive chairman for 12 years and as a board member for over 30 years, has never presented a resolution to the board that would establish term limits.

Cole took over the meeting and moved to adjourn before anyone in senior management had the opportunity to share their concerns about Snyder. After that attempt failed, Cole still wouldn’t allow senior management to express their concerns about Snyder. He went so far as to bring up New York state nonprofit regulations that stipulate that staff members of a nonprofit organization may not exert influence on what are considered to be board matters.

It was Cole’s right to suggest that staff members were acting improperly (although people I spoke to dispute the notion that they did). But standing in the way of staff member suggestions certainly didn’t make some board members feel more comfortable with Cole’s leadership.

Then, on Jan. 31, 2017, board members who were already suspicious began growing deeply concerned about the Snyder investigation. In a meeting that day, Snyder made a presentation about his findings on the transaction and Ajamie.

Snyder said he found the transaction to be lawful. But Snyder, according to four sources, spent most of his time attacking Ajamie and his report and praising Weinstein’s commitment to the organization. Snyder also read from the Weinstein-ART contract, which board members had still not had an opportunity to review.

Most board members were joining the meeting by phone, and could not see the PowerPoint presentation Snyder was reading from. They still have not received a copy of the presentation, which came at a cost of hundreds of thousands of dollars; all they have is a one-page letter saying that a majority of the board agrees that the transaction was lawful and handled properly. The board was never asked to vote on this matter, so the use of the word “majority” is speculative at best.

In an email, Snyder said, “After a thorough review, we concluded and reported to the board that this contribution was a lawful charitable donation to ART, as Harvard itself attested. Any contrary suggestion is misinformed and wrong.”

At this point, board members who had already begun to suspect that Snyder was much closer to Weinstein than revealed pressed him to disclose whether he’d had a previous relationship with Weinstein. Under significant pressure, Snyder admitted that he had represented Weinstein in the past, which he’d never disclosed to the board. In an email, Snyder confirmed that he had represented the Weinstein Company in another matter, but that he had also been on the opposing side of another dispute involving Weinstein, this one with NBC over the TV show “Project Runway.”

‘A Conflict’

After their drinks in October 2016, Ajamie and Bloom stayed in touch. Their conversation in October ended in a discussion about allegations of Weinstein engaging in sexual misconduct, and they talked about the matter a few times afterward.

A few months after they met, in a conversation by telephone, Bloom told Ajamie that she couldn’t discuss Weinstein anymore because she had “a conflict.” It soon became apparent that Bloom had two conflicts: She was representing Weinstein as an attorney-adviser, and Weinstein was going to option her book about Trayvon Martin for a TV series with rap star and music mogul Jay-Z. When Bloom first met Ajamie, she said she hadn’t met Weinstein and didn’t know about any sexual misconduct allegations.

It’s unclear how Bloom and Weinstein met, but Weinstein is infamous for putting powerful people who can help or hurt him into a position where they have either the legal definition of a conflict of interest or, at a minimum, the feeling of being conflicted. In the late ’90s, for instance, he was known to give book and movie deals to New York gossip columnists.

During the latter part of the election, Bloom became more and more visible as she represented women accusing Trump of sexual misconduct. She would regularly appear on TV to talk about the men who had wronged her clients. She would be the perfect person for Weinstein to put in the position of having a conflict of interest.

In January, Ajamie invited Bloom to join him and a group of friends at the Sundance Film Festival in Park City, Utah. It was an annual tradition for Ajamie, a chance to watch films that hadn’t been released into theaters yet and hobnob with film stars, directors and producers. Bloom accepted the invitation. (A source familiar with Bloom’s schedule confirmed that she attended the festival.)

Bloom’s office declined to comment on a list of detailed questions.

Bloom also met up with her client and soon-to-be-announced producing partner, Harvey Weinstein, at Sundance. She recounted the conversation she had with Weinstein to Ajamie and told Ajamie that Weinstein was “excited” to find out that Ajamie was at Sundance.

Weinstein had been trying to undermine Ajamie for months, ever since he reviewed the lawyer’s report and found out he was talking to people about sexual misconduct allegations. He asked Bloom to arrange a meeting. While he was investigating the transaction, Ajamie had tried for months to meet with Weinstein to interview him, but to no avail. Now, thanks to Bloom, he had the opportunity to meet the man at the center of the controversy.

Ajamie, Bloom, and Weinstein met the next day for two hours. During that conversation, Weinstein would tell Ajamie he had heard Ajamie was accusing him of rape. Ajamie told Weinstein that while he had heard the allegations, he wasn’t going around asserting them as fact.

‘Lisa, Did He Name Any Women Specifically?’

It was becoming more apparent to some board members that the worlds of Cole, Weinstein and Snyder had collided. In early February 2017, as part of his investigation into Ajamie, Snyder asked Bloom join a teleconference with members of the special committee set up to investigate the amfAR-ACT transaction.

According to a source familiar with the interview, Snyder spent time asking Bloom questions that were odd and not within the scope of his work. He asked Bloom about the women who Ajamie claimed were accusing Weinstein of sexual misconduct. “Lisa,” he asked, “did he [Ajamie] name any women specifically?” Bloom replied that Ajamie hadn’t mentioned any specific women, but confirmed that Ajamie had inquired about the allegations. This, according to one board member, gave Snyder exactly what he wanted: reason to question Ajamie’s motives.

By the time of this interview, Bloom was not only immersed in a business deal with Weinstein, she was also advising him as an attorney. She did not reveal this key fact in the meeting. She said only that she had a “conflict” and referred to the TV deal.

Some of the board members in that meeting found out Bloom was Weinstein’s attorney a full eight months later, when the Hollywood Reporter revealed the news of Bloom representing Weinstein on the eve of the Times story that would upend Weinstein’s life.

‘We Won’t Involve Ourselves In Harvey’s Affairs In The Future.’

If board members weren’t already suspicious of the Weinstein-Snyder-Cole triumvirate, an email sent in mid-February 2017 dispelled any doubt that something weird was afoot.

Simons sent the board an email strongly urging them to sign a non-disclosure agreement that would prevent them from talking about either Weinstein or the transaction, and would also release Weinstein from any obligations.

Most board members, according to emails I reviewed and conversations with people familiar with the reaction, were livid. They didn’t understand why they were being put in a position to have to keep their mouths shut and release Weinstein ― the very donor who had caused so many problems ― from any obligation to the organization.

Cole told board members to stand down for a few days while he spoke to Snyder and ostensibly to Weinstein about the non-disclosure and release.

For two months, board members went back and forth with Cole and Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher. The non-disclosure agreement was amended again and again. Members were subjected to intense lobbying by Cole and Snyder, but some refused to budge.

In April, Cole set up a conference call between Snyder and a board member who’d refused to sign the nondisclosure agreement, Arlen Andelson. During the call, Snyder read from a letter sent to him by one of Weinstein’s attorneys. The letter said that Weinstein would contribute $1 million to amfAR over five years, provided all the board members sign the non-disclosure agreement.

Another proviso: Weinstein would donate the funds only if Cole remained non-executive chairman of amfAR, a requirement that board members saw as untenable.

Board members whom I spoke with said they were deeply concerned about the intent behind the non-disclosure agreement. Was it just about amfAR and the transaction, or was it about something more nefarious?
Board members whom I spoke with said they were deeply concerned about the intent behind the non-disclosure agreement. Was it just about amfAR and the transaction, or was it about something more nefarious?

One member pointed me to an email Cole sent in March that in retrospect seems particularly disturbing. In the message, Cole encourages members to sign the agreement, and adds, “We are signing something that promises confidentiality and that we won’t involve ourselves in Harvey’s affairs in the future.”

By the time Cole sent this email, Weinstein had become aware that NBC News contributor Ronan Farrow was a month into an investigation of Weinstein’s alleged sexual misconduct.

‘Our Review Has Raised Several Issues of Concern’

Months after the fight over the non-disclosure agreements, multiple board members had resigned. Marty Chavez resigned in January 2017, and board members Ryan Greenawalt, Jay Ellis and Kevin McClatchy resigned in August 2017. David Bohnett, a major philanthropist who was one of amfAR’s top donors, resigned from a non-governing board in August 2017.

Of all the board members who were asked to sign the nondisclosure agreement, only four of them refused: Arlen Andelson, Vin Roberti, Jonathan Canno and Mervyn Silverman.  They hired their own attorney and spokesman to represent them in a dispute over the amfAR-ART transaction and other corporate governance matters. These four board members, like amfAR’s CEO Kevin Frost, have been steadfast in their refusal to bow to pressure from Cole and board members aligned with him and Weinstein.

In an email from a spokesman, Snyder addressed the dissenting board members and the board members who resigned, saying, “It is important to state that it is shameful that a handful of people are seeking to exploit the Harvey Weinstein scandal in an effort [to] smear AmfAR, harming its ability to fulfill its lifesaving mission.”

The current and former board members in question have been objecting to the way this transaction was handled since June 2015, over two years before the Times revealed Weinstein’s history of sexual misconduct.

The first Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher bill of $900,000 was reduced to $450,000. The firm provided a 50 percent discount, which it commonly offers to nonprofit organizations, according to several people familiar with the practice. But board members claim they have not seen a detailed bill.

Snyder told me that “the bills are consistent with billing standards in the legal community and consistent with the format and detail of bills for other clients.” According to three sources familiar with the matter, amfAR staff and some members of the audit committee, working with the organization’s general counsel, drafted a letter to Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher with over 100 questions about its billing, but Cole and Simons declined to sign off on sending it.

Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, without board approval, also hired the powerhouse Manhattan communications firm Rubenstein Associates, which has led only to more tumult. For this story, amfAR’s in-house communications director asked me to submit my questions to a Rubenstein partner for comment on behalf of amfAR and Cole. In an email, Snyder told me, “Gibson Dunn retained Rubenstein at the direction of the Chair, in conjunction with the Vice Chair, Chair of the Audit Committee, and Chair of the Communications Committee, who had authority. It is standard for outside counsel to retain the communications firm on behalf of the client.”

In an email, Cole said that he wasn’t required to obtain board approval to retain Rubenstein.

Now, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman has launched an investigation into the amfAR-ART transaction, as well as a probe into amfAR’s corporate governance procedures, in response to a letter sent in April by the attorney for the four dissenting board members hired.

In a letter sent to Snyder on Sept. 21, 2017, Schneiderman’s office says:

Our review has raised several issues of concern including, among other matters, aspects of the administration of the charitable auction, whether the June 2015 amfAR-ART transaction resulted in benefits to private interests, and the conduct of certain trustees and amfAR agents during the course of the investigation of these events. OAG’s inquiry also revealed underlying problems with the governance of the organization, deficiencies in the organization’s internal operations and controls, and a need for greater training on the division of responsibilities and duties between and among amfAR’s trustees and officers.
While that paragraph was enough to make some board members and staff feel as if their concerns were being heard, little has happened to address their biggest concern: Cole is still the non-executive chairman of amfAR.

‘He’s Made Things Much Worse By Trying To Make This Problem Disappear’

People intimately involved with amfAR transaction are frustrated that Cole gambled his legacy as non-executive chair on the Weinstein deal. “I know Kenneth wishes he could take this back, it’s caused him so much heartache, and he’s made things worse by trying to make this problem disappear,” said one person who used to support Cole as board chair but now believes the organization will only get back on its feet if he retires from the position.

Some of the sources that spoke to me were bewildered by how all of this became so complicated. The mission of amfAR is simple but not easy: cure AIDS. Why did Kenneth Cole have to complicate that already difficult mission by stepping into this transaction? That question hasn’t been answered yet, just as others still linger: Why did Orin Snyder feel so compelled to act in a way that protected Harvey Weinstein? Why did Lisa Bloom have drinks with Thomas Ajamie? Is there something Harvey Weinstein and Kenneth Cole know that the amfAR board doesn’t know?

There is one question that has been answered: amfAR and its donors are another victim of Weinstein’s bullying, except in this case it’s not directly about allegations of sexual assault or harassment, it’s about alleged financial impropriety.

Unlike Weinstein’s other victims, this time someone powerful was in the position to stop it: a wealthy, famous, and influential designer who just couldn’t say no to the movie mogul who is now a self-confessed sexual predator.


&&&&&

+++++

How Top NBC Executives Quashed The Bombshell Harvey Weinstein Story

2017-10-13

In mid-August, Ronan Farrow, an NBC News contributor, had secured an interview with a woman who was willing to appear on camera, in silhouette, her identity concealed, and say Harvey Weinstein had raped her, according to four people with close knowledge of the reporting. It was a pivotal moment in a testy, months-long process of reporting a story that had bedeviled a generation of media and Hollywood reporters. 

Farrow had a lot of material already. In March, he had acquired a damning and much-coveted audio recording in which Weinstein admits to having groped an Italian model. He had interviews with former executives and assistants who’d worked closely with Weinstein who spoke about the culture of harassment and abuse he perpetrated. And now he had someone ready to accuse Weinstein of rape, on camera. 

But at that moment Farrow was also caught in the pincers of an NBC News edict. He had been told by executives at NBC News that he didn’t have enough reporting to go on air with his Weinstein story, according to four sources, and he had been told by the network to stop reporting on it. NBC tried to put a stop to the interview with the woman accusing Weinstein of rape. The network insisted he not use an NBC News crew for the interview, and neither was he to mention his NBC News affiliation. And so that was how Ronan Farrow wound up paying out of his own pocket for a camera crew to film an interview. 

As a project for NBC News, Farrow’s story was effectively dead. Later that month, he received permission to take his reporting to another news organization. The story that resulted, published Tuesday by The New Yorker, was a blockbuster: multiple women accusing Weinstein of rape and other sexual misconduct, accompanied by the audio of Weinstein admitting to sexual assault.

At an NBC News town hall Wednesday, NBC News President Noah Oppenheim said: “The notion that we would try to cover for a powerful person is deeply offensive to all of us. We were on that long list of places that chased this thing, tried to nail it, but weren’t ultimately the ones who broke it.” 

Then he struck a rueful tone, suggesting that the NBC iteration of the story had died of natural causes. “We reached a point over the summer where we, as an organization, didn’t feel that we had all the elements that we needed to air,” he said.

Yet interviews with 12 people inside and outside NBC News with direct knowledge of the reporting behind Farrow’s story suggest a different cause of death. All of the sources who spoke to HuffPost asked not to be named, either because they weren’t authorized to speak to the media about the story or because they were fearful of retribution from NBC News executives. These sources detailed a months-long struggle within NBC News during which Oppenheim and other executives slow-walked Farrow’s story, crippling it with their qualms and irresolution.

Toward the end, the concerns seemed to take on a personal tone, and it became difficult to tell where the Weinstein team’s attempts to discredit the story left off and NBC News’ editorial forbearance began. According to multiple sources inside and outside of NBC News who worked on the aborted story, Oppenheim related to Farrow what Weinstein’s lawyers had said in complaint to NBC: that Farrow had a conflict of interest because Weinstein had helped revive the career of Farrow’s estranged father, director Woody Allen. Weinstein’s representatives would later use a similar line of attack when the story landed at The New Yorker. The magazine, known for its rigorous vetting process, saw no conflict of interest.

Oppenheim’s statement and the pushback that NBC News has been sharing on background to reporters conflicts significantly with the accounts of people who worked on the story inside NBC News and elsewhere, according to several sources with close knowledge of the reporting.

Farrow, who began reporting the story in January and by late July had interviewed at least eight women, some on the record, had been told twice that the story was “reportable,” meaning it had passed the network’s stringent fact checking and legal process, according to four people with detailed knowledge of the process. A separate NBC investigative journalist was also asked to re-report his work, and her review raised no flags, these people said. 

Farrow scored his first major reporting coup in January: an on-camera interview with actress Rose McGowan during which she accused Weinstein of sexually assaulting her when she was 23 years old. The Times has reported that McGowan settled her sexual assault claim with Weinstein for $100,000 in 1997. Ultimately, McGowan withdrew her permission for NBC News to use the footage after she’d received legal threats from Weinstein.

In March, Farrow obtained audio in which Weinstein admits to having sexually assaulted Italian model Ambra Battilana Gutierrez. The audio was recorded a day after Gutierrez had gone to the New York Police Department and told officers that Weinstein had groped her breasts and attempted to put a hand up her skirt.

The NYPD fitted Gutierrez with a wire, and she recorded her conversation with Weinstein at the Tribeca Grand Hotel in New York.

Weinstein is heard on the recording pressuring Gutierrez to join him in his hotel room, and toward the end of the tense exchange he admits he’d sexually assaulted her. When Gutierrez asked Weinstein why he had groped her breasts the day before, he answered, “Oh, please, I’m sorry, just come on in,” and “I’m used to that. Come on. Please.”

Gutierrez asked, “You’re used to that?”

“Yes,” Weinstein said, adding, “I won’t do it again.”

For two years, reporters from numerous publications had been attempting to obtain that damning audio. To many publications, the audio on its own would have merited a stand-alone news story. And even if the network had deemed it unworthy of television, NBC News could have published the story online, which Farrow, along with Rich McHugh, an NBC News investigative producer, also pursued. In fact, Farrow was said to be eager to get some of their reporting out in hopes that it would break the dam and other sources would come forward. 

By April, NBC News had two big scoops in its pocket: an on-record interview with McGowan and the explosive audio of Weinstein admitting to sexual assault. But Farrow was told by multiple NBC News executives and producers that the reporting and interviews he had conducted weren’t sufficient for a televised story. According to four sources, Farrow and McHugh also prepared a lengthy text story to run on the NBC News website, but Farrow was told it wouldn’t run.

By July, Farrow was ready with a bombshell story about Weinstein that included on-camera interviews with accusers and interviews with four female and male former Miramax and Weinstein Co. executives. 

At this point, Farrow and McHugh were ready to move forward with the story but were told by NBC executives that the story had to go up to NBC News Chairman Andy Lack for approval and that the story would be under review by Steve Burke, executive vice president of Comcast and president and CEO of NBCUniversal, and his office. Communication reviewed by HuffPost confirms that this message was communicated to Farrow, McHugh and others, but HuffPost cannot independently confirm that Burke reviewed the story. Three NBC News staffers that spoke to HuffPost said that they had never heard of Burke’s office needing to review a story and said it was highly unusual. An NBC Universal spokeswoman denied that Burke ever reviewed the story and said that he does not interfere in NBC News editorial decisions.

In August, according to four sources familiar with the conversations, Farrow was repeatedly told by the network that he didn’t have enough reporting done to go to air but that he should also stop reporting on Weinstein’s story, putting him in an untenable position.

One of the people Farrow had interviewed on camera for the story was veteran media reporter Ken Auletta. Earlier in his career, Auletta had tried to break the story of Weinstein’s predations. According to two sources familiar with the interview, and as reported in slightly different form by the Daily Beast’s Lloyd Grove, Auletta, after having reviewed Farrow’s reporting, said on camera something along the lines of, “If NBC News sits on this evidence Ronan has, it is a black eye for the organization and a huge scandal.” 

Farrow ultimately brought his reporting to The New Yorker, which published his blockbuster account on Monday after putting his piece through its gauntlet of editors and fact checkers.

“Ronan Farrow, who came to us about two months ago, had very serious reporting already accomplished,” said David Remnick, editor in chief of The New Yorker. “And with extremely hard work, and with work with a lot of my colleagues here at The New Yorker, he deepened the piece and made it publishable. And it is something that exemplified great investigative journalism.”

NBC had initially been reticent about reporting on other news outlets’ stories on Weinstein as well. Last Thursday, when The New York Times first broke the story of Weinstein’s long history of alleged sexual abuse, both CBS and ABC carried the Weinstein story on their evening broadcasts. But NBC was conspicuously absent among its competitors and didn’t air a Weinstein piece that evening on “NBC Nightly News,” despite having had seven hours to put together a story (the Times article was published at 11 a.m. EDT).

Some NBC sources said that the broadcast was jam-packed with breaking news, including reporting on the aftermath of the Las Vegas shooting and the NBC News report that Secretary of State Rex Tillerson called President Donald Trump a “moron.” But the broadcast also had room for a segment on NFL player Cam Newton’s sexist remarks to a female reporter and a segment about Rock and Roll Hall of Fame nominees.

Two sources familiar with the production told HuffPost that Oppenheim made the final decision not to include a Weinstein story in the broadcast, telling staff that Weinstein wasn’t a nationally recognizable figure. That weekend, when “Saturday Night Live” executive producer Lorne Michaels was criticized for not including any Weinstein jokes, he told The Daily Mail that “it’s a New York thing,” suggesting something similar. NBC insiders have told HuffPost that this has led some employees to wonder if this was an internal talking point that NBC executives were using to justify the lack of coverage.

The next morning, NBC was, once again, bested by its competitors when ABC’s “Good Morning America” ran a segment that was 10 minutes long and CBS’ “This Morning” ran a five-minute segment. NBC’s “Today” show simply had anchor Craig Melvin read off a teleprompter part of a story that largely included Weinstein’s pushback as opposed to the detailed allegations made in the Times.

The news that NBC had the audio of Weinstein admitting to sexual assault shocked and frustrated NBC News employees who spoke to HuffPost, saying that the mood in the newsroom had grown dark over the missed opportunity to break a big story.

It reminded several people who spoke to HuffPost of another time that NBC lost the chance to break a story involving a man admitting to alleged sexual misconduct.

In October 2016, NBC News had the now infamous “Access Hollywood” tape of Trump saying he liked to grab women “by the pussy.” While the footage was owned by NBC, it was ultimately published by The Washington Post.

&&&&&

+++++

Bill O’Reilly Returning To Fox News To Appear As A Guest On Sean Hannity’s Show

2017-09-25

Former Fox News Channel host Bill O’Reilly, who was ousted from the network after advertisers fled his program following a New York Times report that revealed that he and the network had settled multiple sexual harassment lawsuits, is returning to the network for the first time since his ouster and appearing on Sean Hannity’s program as a guest. 

O’Reilly is appearing on Hannity’s program to promote his new book, “Killing England.”

His appearance on Fox is not his first television interview since he left the network. Last week, he was interviewed by NBC’s Matt Lauer on the Today Show. 

&&&&&

+++++

Clinton Says Angela Merkel Is The Most Important Leader In The Free World

2017-09-24

Hillary Clinton told MSNBC host Joy-Ann Reid that she believes German Chancellor Angela Merkel is the most important leader in the free world ― an extraordinary assessment by a former presidential candidate, U.S. secretary of state, U.S. senator and first lady, and a remark likely to be seen as an affront to President Donald Trump.

Clinton made the remarks about Merkel in a wide-ranging interview that aired in multiple segments on Reid’s program on Saturday and Sunday. One of the last questions Reid asked Clinton was about her long relationship with Merkel and how she thinks the German leader is responding to Trump’s presidency. 

Reid: “You’ve known Angela Merkel for quite a long time, more than a decade. You were former secretary of state, obviously you― you know her. How― it’s sort of a two-parter, but how do you think she is weathering this Trump moment? And is she the leader of the free world?” 

Clinton: “I think as to the first ― she’s weathering it, but it’s disappointing to her. She’s ― a serious person. She is the most important leader in the free world right now, in my estimation. She is someone who values predictability, stability...”

Merkel’s party, the Christian Democratic Union led the pack in Germany’s national election on Sunday, according to early exit polls. The vote sets her up for a fourth term as chancellor.

&&&&&

+++++

Eric Bolling Out At Fox News

2017-09-08

Fox News has parted ways with host Eric Bolling, the network confirmed Friday, just over a month after an exclusive HuffPost report revealed Bolling sent inappropriate text messages to current and former female colleagues.

News of the departure comes after two HuffPost reports revealed a pattern of inappropriate behavior by Bolling, who co-hosts “Fox News Specialists.” Fox News will cancel the program, it said in a statement.

“Eric Bolling and Fox have agreed to part ways amicably,” the network said. “We thank Eric for his ten years of service to our loyal viewers and wish him the best of luck.”

HuffPost’s report, which was based on 14 sources, revealed that at least three current and former Fox colleagues said they had received inappropriate text messages from Bolling, including photos of male genitalia.

Less than a week after the two stories were published, Bolling filed notice that he was suing this reporter for defamation, claiming damages of $50 million.

&&&&&

+++++

Bianna Golodryga Joins CBS And CNN In An Unusual Deal

2017-09-05

When Bianna Golodryga and her family first moved to Houston in the early 1980s as political refugees from the former Soviet Union, the future reporter was called a commie spy by other children. She begged her parents to not speak Russian in public. Decades later, Golodryga’s fluency in Russian and expertise in the country at the center of a growing national security scandal is proving to be a much greater asset.

In a first-of-its-kind arrangement, Golodryga, who previously served as a business anchor for Yahoo News and the anchor of ABC’s weekend edition of “Good Morning America,” will be working for CBS News and CNN simultaneously. She signed multiyear deals with both networks late last week.

While Golodryga’s new CNN colleague Anderson Cooper contributes reports to CBS’ “60 Minutes,” most of his time is spent with the cable network. What makes Golodryga’s deal unusual is that she could work for both networks each day, contributing reports to CBS shows and serving as an on-air contributor on CNN shows like “The Situation Room with Wolf Blitzer.”

Golodryga filed her first story early Tuesday for “CBS This Morning,” about the water quality in flood-ravaged Houston, and appeared live wading in stagnant floodwater in her hometown. Her first appearance on CNN is set for this Wednesday evening.

Golodryga may contribute stories to any CBS news show but will focus most of her attention on “CBS This Morning.” She will also fill in as an anchor on “CBS This Morning.” While she declined to say what other stories she was currently working on, there’s no doubt some of her focus will be on stories related to Russia and the Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. election. She will be the only on-air reporter covering Russia at any of the major networks who is a native Russian speaker.

In an exclusive interview with HuffPost, Golodryga considered her personal arc from rejection to acceptance of her Russian heritage: starting out as a child embarrassed about where she came from, then deciding to major in Russian studies in college, and now teaching Russian to her two children with former Obama and Clinton administration official Peter Orszag. These days, the public focus on Russian President Vladimir Putin and the investigation into his country’s electoral interference also makes Golodryga the center of attention at social gatherings.

In the past eight months, Golodryga has appeared on MSNBC and CNN to offer her analysis on the Trump White House and in particular the investigation into Russian interference. Both cable networks offered her the exposure that Yahoo News didn’t.

But it was after Golodryga filled in on “CBS This Morning” for a vacationing Gayle King that she was given the opportunity to go back to network television and do what she loves most, anchoring and reporting from the field for the network she grew up watching with her family. “60 Minutes” was a staple in their household.

Having a platform on two major news networks could also help Golodryga land big interviews again (while she was at ABC, she sat down with former President Bill Clinton and legendary investor Warren Buffett) and avoid the kind of mix-up that made news earlier this year.

In the book Shattered, a postmortem on Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign, it was revealed that Golodryga missed the interview of a lifetime thanks to a confusion of names. According to the book, Clinton had told top aide Huma Abedin that she wanted to grant an interview to “Bianna.” Abedin shared the request with the campaign press team, who reportedly thought she meant “Brianna,” as in CNN reporter Brianna Keilar. By the time the mixup was noticed, it was too late to cancel the interview with Keilar.

Golodryga had no idea that she lost the chance to interview Clinton until she was reading a copy of the book in advance of an interview with the authors Amie Parnes and Jonathan Allen.

Since she joined CBS, Golodryga said that she has not yet reached out to Clinton’s team, but that she would welcome the opportunity to sit down with her.

As Clinton gears up for a monthslong book tour, Golodryga’s opportunity may come sooner rather than later.

&&&&&

