+++++

Networks Skip This Key Detail: Rand Paul’s Assailant Is a ‘Liberal’ ‘Socialist’

2017-11-06

Imagine if lefty Senator Elizabeth Warren had been violently assaulted by an arch-conservative. Think journalists would mention that point? Well, they didn’t when the situation was reversed and Rand Paul was attacked over the weekend by a “liberal” “socialist.” Only ABC even bothered to compare this latest incident to the attempted murder of Republican congressmen in the summer.  The total coverage on ABC, CBS and NBC of this latest violent act is 3 minutes and 7 seconds

On Monday, CBS This Morning co-host Norah O’Donnell offered the bare details in a 36 second news brief: “Republican Senator Paul Rand is recovering from five broken ribs after he was assaulted at his home. The Kentucky lawmaker was attacked Friday in Bowling Green. His next-door neighbor Rene Boucher was arrested for the assault.” She added, “No information on the motive or why he was attacked.” 

 


 

Well, we DO have an idea why Boucher didn’t like Paul. In a story on the attack, The Washington Post —  after 17 paragraphs —  revealed this: 

Jeff Jones, a registered nurse who worked with Boucher at the Bowling Green Medical Center, described Boucher’s politics as “liberal.”

“He was active on social media and said some negative things about the Republican agenda,” Jones said. 

“I think it was unfortunate that they lived so close together,” he added.
New York magazine explained that Boucher is also a socialist: 

Boucher’s motive is unclear. Jim Bullington, a former member of the city commission, who knows both men, described Boucher as a socialist and said he’d been known to get into “heated discussions” with the libertarian senator about health care.
Neither ABC’s Good Morning America nor NBC’s Today covered the shooting at all on Monday. 

On Sunday, only GMA’s Kenneth Moton linked, in a broader sense, this assault to the attempted slaughter in June of Republicans at a softball practice: “There have been a number of security concerns for members of Congress. Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle reporting threats in the wake of that shooting at the GOP congressional baseball practice a few months ago.”

Moton at least hinted that the attack on Paul could have an ideological motivation: “Rand Paul, outspoken, a fierce critic of the Affordable Care Act and recently a defender of President Trump's policies.” But there was no mention of Boucher's politics.

Ideology may have something to do with the attack on Paul. It may not. This may simply revolve around two neighbors who just didn’t like each other. But the fact that this man hated Rand Paul’s beliefs should be mentioned. It would be if the situation was reversed. In fact, journalists don’t even check the facts when there’s an opportunity to smear conservatives. In 2012, ABC falsely connected a mass murder in a Colorado movie theater to the Tea Party. 


&&&&&

+++++

CBS Finally Wakes Up to Mueller Investigating Top Dem’s Russia Connections

2017-10-31

Amidst the coverage, Tuesday, of the 2016 campaign and charges in possible coordination with Russia, CBS finally noticed the implication of a powerful Democrat, who just happened to be the brother of Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign chairman. This Morning managed a scant 39 seconds to this news: “A leading Democratic Party lobbyist is under scrutiny today after his firm was linked to Paul Manafort's indictment. Tony Podesta resigned from the Podesta Group yesterday.” 

Co-host Gayle King added, “He is the brother of John Podesta, the chairman of Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign. The Podesta Group lobbied for the pro-Russian Ukrainian group with ties to Paul Manafort.” 

 


 

She noted, “The indictment says that Manafort asked two unnamed companies to lobby on behalf of Russian interests in Ukraine.” 

On Monday night, the CBS Evening News ignored this part of the story, despite the fact that the network devoted 18 minutes and 45 seconds to the overall Russia investigation. 

Only ABC covered Podesta on Monday. On Tuesday, only CBS did, but for less than a minute. Keep in mind, the network morning shows have a combined eight hours of air time. 

A transcript is below: 

&&&&&

+++++

Huh? CNN’s Sally Kohn: Blame Trump for Rage at Harvey Weinstein

2017-10-20

You knew liberals in the media would get there eventually. As the sex abuse scandal enveloping lefty Hollywood titan Harvey Weinstein continues to grow, CNN’s Sally Kohn on Thursday sought to shift the blame away from Weinstein and his funding of fellow Democrats Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. In a piece for CNN.com, she wondered, “But should Weinstein in part blame Donald Trump -- for whipping up Hollywood against sexual assault in the first place?” 

So, it wasn’t the more than quarter century of alleged sexual misconduct that finally prompted outrage over Weinstein, it was the claims against Donald Trump. Apparently, after cheering on Bill Clinton, a man accused of groping, harassment and rape, celebrities have just had enough with powerful men intimidating women: 

Beginning with the largest march of women and their allies the day after Trump was inaugurated, we reached some critical mass in America and around the world of just refusing to stay silent and, together, more and more women are speaking out. And at the same time, for Hollywood in particular, the challenge of Weinstein was interesting timing.
To her credit, Kohn highlighted the obvious hypocrisy here: “Hollywood has always talked a good game about women's rights, gay rights, racial justice, and economic justice but then failed time and time again to live up to its own rhetoric.”

But after clarifying that the disgraced mogul is responsible for his own actions, the CNN analyst added: 

Just like Donald Trump is responsible, in some way, for having gotten us all to surface and scrutinize these issues in new ways. And hopefully that means Hollywood -- and all of us -- will change for the better.
Convenient that it took the Republican president to prompt Hollywood that inappropriate treatment of women is wrong. They never seemed to learn this lesson under Bill Clinton. 

&&&&&

+++++

Director of Hollywood Bomb Blames Americans Rejecting ‘Science’ for Flop

2017-09-23

The director of a film reviled by the American people highlighted rejecting science as an explanation for why the movie bombed. In an interview with The Frame on Thursday, Mother! Director Darren Aronofsky responded to the movie’s highly unusual F-grade Cinemascore this way: “... You have other people who basically believe in the power of a iPhone that they can communicate to 35 million people in a blink of an eye, yet they don't believe in science in other ways.” 

He continued, “It has as many people believe in it as believe in gravity. And it scares me and it's time to start screaming. So I wanted to howl. And this was my howl. And some people are not going to want to listen to it. That's cool.” 

The movie website Dark Horizons noted that the Jennifer Lawerence film “has earned the dubious honor of being one of only nineteen films in history to receive an F-grade CinemaScore – a marker more of failed expectation than a bash of its quality.” 

Trying to express how Americans reacted so negatively to Mother!, the director seemed to indicate that they weren’t supposed to like it: 

What's interesting about that is, like, how if you walk out of this movie are you not going to give it an "F?" It's a punch. It's a total punch. And I realize that we were excited by that. We wanted to make a punk movie and come at you. And the reason I wanted to come is because I was very sad and I had a lot of anguish and I wanted to express it.

Filmmaking is such a hard journey. People are constantly saying no to you. And to wake up every morning and get out of bed and to face all those no’s, you have to be willing to really believe in something.

I said, Look, this isn’t going to be a popularity contest. We’re basically holding up a mirror to what’s going on. All of us are doing this. But that final chapter hasn’t been written and, hopefully, things can change. And, to go back, the fact that it’s going down right now and things are really falling apart in a way that is really scary.
According to Box Office Mojo, the film has grossed $10.1 million as of September 21 and had a budget of $30 million.

If only Americans would stop rejecting science and learn to love a movie that features a mob eating a baby. 

&&&&&

+++++

Politico: ‘Rank and File’ at CNN ‘Grumble’ at Jim Acosta’s Bias

2017-09-21

Even some of his colleagues at CNN view Jim Acosta as a liberal cheerleader. That’s the conclusion in a new Politico Magazine profile piece. The September 21 story featured this anonymous quote from a “senior person” at CNN: “There’s some grumbling in the rank-and-file that this isn’t straight news.” 

But that’s okay because “the higher up you go, the more people like what Jim's doing or he wouldn't be doing it."

The article by Ben Strauss indicated that Acosta’s activist, left-wing attacks on the Donald Trump White House are a “conscious effort” to build his brand: 

Acosta, by informal acclamation of his peers, is considered the reporter most likely to become part of the news story of any given day. "He understands that this is a big show, he's seen the Saturday Night Live parodies and he's made a conscious effort to become one of the notable characters," said a senior reporter who sits toward the front of the briefing room. 
The journalist clearly views himself as a heroic fighter against the tyrant Trump. As noted by Politico:  

Acosta took a last sip of his beer, content that he was on the right side of history. “People are going to look back at this moment and ask each and every one of us, ‘What did you do when [Trump] was doing this in America?” he said. “‘What role did you play?’”    
As mentioned by the MRC’s Tim Graham, Acosta has defended his anti-Trump bias this way: “Let other people be the wallflower.” 

&&&&&

+++++

Twisting Language: AP Refers to ‘Undocumented Citizens’

2017-07-07

Talk about twisting the English language into a pretzel. The Associated Press on Tuesday hyped fear about the end of DACA as it referred to “undocumented citizens” in Chicago. In a story promoting that city’s liberal mayor bashing Donald Trump, the AP wrote, “[Chicago] school officials say about a third of the school’s students are undocumented citizens.” 

Undocumented citizens? What does that even mean? According to Dictionary.com, a “citizen” is defined this way: “A native or naturalized member of a state or nation who owes allegiance to its government and is entitled to its protection.” 

The full quote reads: 

[Rahm] Emanuel spoke as Chicago Public Schools marked the first day of classes Tuesday. The mayor told students at Solorio Academy High School they “are welcome in the city of Chicago.” The Chicago Sun-Times reports that school officials say about a third of the school’s students are undocumented citizens. Emanuel said Chicago schools “will be a Trump-free zone.”
On July 18, the MRC’s Brent Bozell and Tim Graham explained how the AP promotes the liberal agenda through official journalistic policy: 

The AP instructs reporters to say “anti-abortion,” in keeping with the constant desire to define conservatives in the negative: anti-tax, anti-immigrant, anti-abortion, and so on.

...

Years ago we were told to stop using the phrase “illegal aliens.” They’re “immigrants,” we were instructed. Bizarrely, the AP is now discouraging the plain words “migrant” or “refugee” as Syrians flee to Europe. Instead this is what the experts tell reporters to call them (and we’re not making this up): “People struggling to enter Europe.” We might struggle with our luggage when arriving at the airport in Venice. Does that make us “refugees?”
It’s been quite the week for online journalism. On Wednesday, NBCNews.com labeled Democratic Senator Robert Menendez (N.J.) in an AP story, currently on trial for bribery, as a Republican. 

&&&&&

