+++++

Central London Panics Over Reports Of Shots Fired

2017-11-24

But police could not find evidence of gunshots.

LONDON ― Commuters and tourists were sent into a panic on Friday as hordes of armed police spilled into the area surrounding one of the British capital’s busiest tube stations, responding to reports of shots fired.

Authorities at the Oxford Circus station said they were acting “as if the incident is terrorist related” and urged people in the area to stay indoors, but after finding “no evidence” on gunshots or casualties, stood down. The station was closed briefly, but has since reopened.

Bystanders shared videos on social media showing people running on the street as authorities instructed anyone outdoors to find shelter. 

HuffPost UK reporter Owen Bennett was in the area at the time.

“After a few minutes where it seemed like nothing was happening there were screams and everyone started running and people then ran into buildings,” he said.

London resident Melina Michael-Ings, 40, was shopping for a pint of milk when the chaos unfolded.

“I saw people running,” she told HuffPost UK. “My first thought was ‘this is a bit extreme for Black Friday.’ Then suddenly a swarm of people came up the escalators. A swarm. It was horrifying. The screams ― they were running for lives and it felt like they were running from something.”

Terrorist-related arrests have risen to a record level in the U.K. The country’s official terror threat level was briefly raised to “critical” in September after a bombing at Parsons Green tube station in London wounded dozens of people.

&&&&&

+++++

Based On His Tweets, Here’s What Donald Trump Was Thankful For This Year

2017-11-24

Think tax cuts and Sean Hannity’s ratings.

Ah, Thanksgiving. It’s that time of year when families across America gather to eat an irrationally large dinner at an irrationally early hour and discuss what they’re most thankful for, like good health, new relationships or ― in the case of President Donald Trump ― tax cuts and Sean Hannity’s ratings.

The president on Thursday met with Coast Guard members, videochatted with troops overseas, ate dinner with his family and visited one of his namesake golf courses. He also tweeted ... a lot. By analyzing those tweets, we’ve determined what the commander in chief is most grateful for. 

1. The wall.

The Department of Homeland Security last month unveiled several prototypes for Trump’s long-promised wall on the U.S.-Mexico border, which Congress has yet to fund. Then Kirstjen Nielsen, Trump’s nominee for homeland security secretary, threw cold water on his promises earlier this month by saying there is “no need for a wall from sea to shining sea.” Still the president tweeted his assurances:

 
Donald J. Trump

@realDonaldTrump
HAPPY THANKSGIVING, your Country is starting to do really well. Jobs coming back, highest Stock Market EVER, Military getting really strong, we will build the WALL, V.A. taking care of our Vets, great Supreme Court Justice, RECORD CUT IN REGS, lowest unemployment in 17 years....!

2. Jobs/the economy. 

3. Neil Gorsuch.

Trump’s Supreme Court pick was confirmed in April after Senate Republicans ― who for months had refused to consider then-President Barack Obama’s nominee for the seat ― invoked the so-called “nuclear option.” 

4. His administration’s efforts to roll back federal regulations on everything from the environment to banks.

Earlier this week, Federal Communications Commission Chairman Ajit Pai announced his plan to end net neutrality rules that compel internet providers to treat all content equally. 

5. The implosion of the Affordable Care Act.

 
Donald J. Trump

@realDonaldTrump
ObamaCare premiums are going up, up, up, just as I have been predicting for two years. ObamaCare is OWNED by the Democrats, and it is a disaster. But do not worry. Even though the Dems want to Obstruct, we will Repeal & Replace right after Tax Cuts!

Part of the reason that Obamacare premiums are on the rise is because in October, Trump decided to end monthly payments to insurance companies meant to keep costs down. Around the same time, he took steps to remove a key Obamacare provision that prohibits insurers from denying coverage to or charging higher premiums on people with pre-existing conditions.

6. The U.S. military and veterans.

 
Donald J. Trump
✔
@realDonaldTrump
Replying to @realDonaldTrump
Will be doing a live Thanksgiving Video Teleconference with Members of the Military at 9:00 A.M. Afghanistan, Iraq, USS Monterey, Turkey & Bahrain. Then going to Coast Guard Quarters, Florida.

. Fox News host and shrieking Trump fanboy Sean Hannity’s ratings.

Hannity sparked controversy this month when he defended Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore, who has been accused of sexually harassing and assaulting teenage girls. But since Hannity’s ratings are indeed ridiculously high, it’s unlikely he’ll see any serious ramifications. 

8. These two random vloggers.

Diamond and Silk are the self-proclaimed “most outspoken & loyal supporters” of the president.

Happy Thanksgiving, everyone!

&&&&&

+++++

Trump Makes World’s Dumbest Feud Even Dumber

2017-11-22

He called a UCLA basketball player’s father, “a poor man’s version of Don King, but without the hair.”

President Donald Trump escalated what has arguably been his most mindless feud yet by calling the father of a college basketball player “a poor man’s version of Don King, but without the hair” and an “ungrateful fool.”

@realDonaldTrump
It wasn’t the White House, it wasn’t the State Department, it wasn’t father LaVar’s so-called people on the ground in China that got his son out of a long term prison sentence - IT WAS ME. Too bad! LaVar is just a poor man’s version of Don King, but without the hair. Just think..

Donald J. Trump
✔
@realDonaldTrump
...LaVar, you could have spent the next 5 to 10 years during Thanksgiving with your son in China, but no NBA contract to support you. But remember LaVar, shoplifting is NOT a little thing. It’s a really big deal, especially in China. Ungrateful fool!

Trump’s tweets early Wednesday continue the president’s back-and-forth jeers with LaVar Ball, whose son LiAngelo Ball was one of three UCLA basketball players arrested in China on shoplifting charges earlier this month. The athletes were eventually released ― an outcome that Trump has very publicly taken credit for ― but Ball isn’t having any of it. 

“Everybody wants to make it seem like [Trump] helped me out,” the elder Ball told ESPN last week. “I’ve seen a lot worse things happen than a guy taking some glasses. My son has built up enough character that one bad decision doesn’t define him.”

In response, the president fumed that he should have left the players in jail, a charge that the White House later walked back.

Trump’s latest criticism seems to be in response to comments the elder Ball made on Monday night, that “if I was going to thank somebody, I’d probably thank President Xi.”

Experts told the New York Times that the players probably would have been released without Trump’s help, because― contrary to the president’s claims― shoplifting isn’t a serious crime in China.

The younger Ball and his teammates returned home last week, but they’ve been suspended indefinitely from the team. 



&&&&&

+++++

Detroit Newspaper Urges Longtime Rep. John Conyers To Resign Over Harassment Claims

2017-11-22

One of the biggest newspapers in Detroit is calling on Rep. John Conyers (D-Mich.) to step down after recent revelations about sexual harassment.

Conyers, the longest-serving current member of the U.S. House of Representatives, “has been an undisputed hero of the civil rights movement, a legislator of uncommon influence and power, and an aging icon,” a Detroit Free Press editorial said. The newspaper contended the legacy of Conyers, whose district includes part of Detroit, will be forever marred by accusations that he made unwanted sexual advances toward female staffers. 

“We reach this conclusion with an incredible amount of disappointment,” the newspaper said. “The word “hero” is invoked, without much hyperbole, around Conyers’ name, dating not only to his initial run for Congress in the mid-1960s, but to the stalwart civil rights activism in the 1950s and early 1960s that brought him to that point ... it’s a tragic end to his public career. But it’s the appropriate consequence for the stunning subterfuge his office has indulged here, and a needed warning to other members of Congress that this can never be tolerated.”

A bombshell BuzzFeed report published early Tuesday centered around one woman who said she was fired for refusing Conyers’ advances, and also included sworn testimony from several other former staffers detailing widespread misconduct. The House Ethics Committee on Tuesday announced it would investigated the claims, which Conyers has said he “expressly and vehemently denied.”

Conyers in 2015 settled the wrongful dismissal complaint for $27,111 in taxpayer money without admitting fault. The Detroit Free Press took issue with the settlement payment, which Conyers has downplayed as severance, but which the newspaper likened to “hush money.”

“This agreement disrupted the accepted process to deal with claims against members of Congress, and leveraged taxpayer funds — without the oversight of the ethics apparatus of the body itself — to make this claim go away,” the newspaper said. “That’s not acceptable, on any level. And it’s a betrayal that breaches the most fundamental trust that exists between a public servant and the people that person represents.”



&&&&&

+++++

Shep Smith Breaks From Fox News Coverage, Tears ‘Uranium One’ Scandal To Shreds

2017-11-15

Since the segment, Uranium One has been mentioned over 40 times on various Fox News shows.

Fox News anchor Shep Smith broke from his network’s hyperventilating coverage of the “Uranium One” pseudoscandal to debunk allegations of wrongdoings by Hillary Clinton.

Smith, never one to blindly toe the party line, took to task President Donald Trump ― and, implicitly, his cable news network of choice ― over the “inaccurate” portrayal of the sale of a Canadian mining company with major U.S. holdings to a Russian company.

“Here’s the accusation,” Smith explained Tuesday. “Nine people involved in the deal made donations to the Clinton Foundation totaling more than $140 million. In exchange, Secretary of State Clinton approved the sale to the Russians — a quid pro quo.”

It’s a claim that has dominated Fox News in recent weeks after The Hill published a deeply flawed report about a “Russian bribery plot” involving the sale. Following pressure from the president and several Republican members of Congress, Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced earlier this week that the Justice Department would consider appointing a special counsel to review the deal as well as other matters involving Clinton and other Democrats.

There’s never been any evidence that Clinton acted inappropriately and, as Smith notes, “the Clinton State Department had no power to approve or veto that transaction. It could do neither.” Indeed, the State Department was just one of nine agencies that signed off on the deal and Clinton herself wasn’t even on the committee. 

“The accusation is predicated on the charge that Secretary Clinton approved the sale,” Smith said. “She did not. A committee of nine evaluated the sale, the president approved the sale, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and others had to offer permits, and none of the uranium was exported for use by the U.S. to Russia. That is Uranium One.”

Since Smith’s segment, Uranium One has been mentioned over 40 times on various Fox News shows.



&&&&&

+++++

U.S. Allies Take Moral Lead On Human Rights Where Trump Falls Short

2017-11-14

He didn’t mention the human rights atrocities once during his 12-day Asia trip.

President Donald Trump failed to speak out about two of Asia’s biggest humanitarian crises ― the ethnocentric violence in Myanmar and the alleged extrajudicial killings in the Phillippines ― during his 12-day visit to the area, even as some of America’s closest allies delivered strongly worded responses.

In a statement released on Monday, the White House said that Trump and Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte discussed the crisis in Myanmar during their meeting on the sidelines of the ASEAN summit in Manila. Trump did not make public remarks about the intensifying violence enveloping Myamnar’s Rakhine state, which has forced more than 600,000 Rohingya Muslim people to flee their homes into Bangladesh. He also didn’t give any indication that he spoke to Myanmar’s de facto leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, about the conflict.

“Both leaders called for the expeditious delivery of humanitarian assistance to affected communities, and welcomed the Myanmar government’s commitment to end the violence, restore media access, ensure the safe return of displaced persons, and implement all of the recommendations of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State, and urged all parties to support these government commitments,” the statement said.

The White House also said that the two leaders spoke about human rights, though a spokesman for Duterte, who has allegedly ordered thousands of extrajudicial killings as part of his war on drugs, denied that. Duterte also shot down questions from reporters on the subject.

Meanwhile, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, who was also in Manila, said he had a “firm” discussion with Duterte on Tuesday about the alleged human rights abuses. He also met with Suu Kyi last week to call for a “sustainable and just solution” to the Rohingya crisis. 

“Canada has earned a reputation for being able to have strong and frank, sometimes firm, discussions around the rule of law and human rights with its partners. It’s very much what people expect of Canada and it comes as no surprise when we bring it up,” Trudeau said. “The president was receptive to my comments, and it was, throughout, a cordial and positive exchange.”

Trudeau said he would nominate a Canadian special envoy to the region to “engage in diplomatic efforts, and identify ways in which Canada can support the response to the situation and the plight of the Rohingya minority.”

Austalian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, also in Manila, said he spoke to Suu Kyi directly on Tuesday to express his concerns with the refugee crisis.

In London, British Prime Minister Theresa May on Monday night condemned the “inhuman” treatment of the Rohingya people, which she said “looks like ethnic cleansing.”

“It is something for which the Burmese authorities ― and especially the military ― must take full responsibility,” May said.


MOHAMMAD PONIR HOSSAIN / REUTERS
Rohingya refugees cross the Naf River with an improvised raft to reach to Bangladesh at Sabrang near Teknaf, Bangladesh November 10, 2017. 
Human rights advocacy groups decried Trump’s missed opportunity.

“President Trump has spoken about his ability to talk tough with foreign leaders, and the ASEAN summit was a renewed opportunity to raise the horrifying human rights abuses that the region is facing,” said Rachel Chhoa-Howard, Philippines researcher for Amnesty International. “It is very disappointing that President Trump appears to largely have ignored this opportunity, and instead stayed silent on the suffering of the Rohingya while in Asia.”

Government-backed forces have been accused of waging a brutal campaign against the minority group, including atrocities such as sexual assault, torture and indiscriminate killings. Satellite imagery has shown hundreds of Rohingya villages burned to the ground.

Trump has yet to speak about the crisis directly, so far only condemning the violence through intermediaries. 

Vice President Mike Pence said in September that Trump urged the United Nations Security Council to take “strong and swift action” to end the bloodshed. U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley said he was “very concerned.” “Everybody is trying to figure out who can move the officials in Burma,” she added.

Secretary of State Rex Tillerson is set to meet later this month with Suu Kyi, who has been chastised over her handling of the crisis, which she once blamed on “fake news.” 

The U.S. is said to be considering sanctions on Myanmar’s regime in response to the alleged crimes, and the State Department withdrew aid to the Burmese military last month. But Tillerson, who has repeatedly condemned the violence, has stopped short of labeling it as ethnic cleansing.

&&&&&