+++++

How A Literal Shock Inspired A Former Marine To Run For Office As A Democratic Socialist

2017-11-12

A workplace injury and its aftermath were a political wake-up call for Virginia state delegate-elect Lee Carter.

In July 2015, Lee Carter was completing the installation of a lighting control panel on a work site in Peoria, Illinois, when he felt a wave of electricity shoot across his chest. The electrician had incorrectly wired the panel, and when Carter touched it, it zapped him with 245 volts.

“It’s like a static electricity shock, but happening 60 times a second throughout half of your body,” he recalled.

Carter, a former Marine with fire-truck-red hair, instinctively recoiled from the panel, breaking his fall on his back. He ended up hurting his back so badly that he could not walk more than 50 feet at a time for the next three months.

The injury was more than just painful and demoralizing: After Virginia rejected Carter’s application for workers’ compensation benefits, and his employer cut down his hours after he recovered, the situation inspired Carter to get involved in politics.

“Coming from that position of working a blue-collar job and being wronged by an employer, it was a very natural transition to say that an economic strategy that puts working people first, ahead of corporate interests, is the way to go to make life better for people,” Carter said.

He became a dues-paying member of the Democratic Socialists of America and ran for a seat in Virginia’s state House of Delegates ― and on Tuesday, with help from fellow DSA members but virtually none from the state’s Democratic Party, Carter won his race by nearly 9 percentage points.

The 30-year-old political newcomer had managed to easily unseat Del. Jackson Miller, the GOP state House Whip, who had outspent him more than 2-to-1.


BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES
Democrat Lee Carter, a democratic socialist, won an election Tuesday to represent Virginia’s 50th District in the state’s House of Delegates.
Carter’s unexpectedly big win has been the subject of endless fascination in the press ― and praise from progressives like Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) eager to highlight the outcome as a sign that unabashed economic populism can be a winning formula in swing districts.

At least equally intriguing, however, is the story of how Carter got involved in politics and embraced democratic socialism. Carter did not learn about socialism from an eccentric family member or through membership in a labor union. He did not get hip to Karl Marx thanks to a charismatic college professor.

Instead, he simply had an experience on the job that shattered his faith in unbridled capitalism. Then Sanders’ presidential run as a self-described democratic socialist sealed the deal.

Carter is a political novice, but he sounds like a natural. In a phone interview, he spelled out his message with a fluent, polished delivery.

But Carter is a rarity among elected officials in that he lacks a college degree. In 2016, one-third of Americans aged 25 or older had a four-year college degree or higher, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. In the U.S. Congress, however, all senators and 95 percent of House members have at least a four-year diploma.

There is an ever-growing sector of our economy that’s made up of people in precarious work, people who are living paycheck to paycheck and aren’t 100 percent sure if the next one’s gonna come in ― and I’m one of them.
Lee Carter, Virginia delegate-elect
There is no publicly available information about the educational attainment of members of Virginia’s legislature. But a review of the campaign websites of the 16 new Democratic members who were elected Tuesday shows Carter is the only one who lacks a bachelor’s degree.

“There is an ever-growing sector of our economy that’s made up of people in precarious work, people who are living paycheck to paycheck and aren’t 100 percent sure if the next one’s gonna come in ― and I’m one of them,” Carter said.

What’s more, Carter, who now makes a living as a project-based information technology consultant, has gone without health insurance for nearly a year.

His wife, who is currently the household’s main breadwinner, gets coverage for herself and their daughter through her job managing a small auto repair chain. Carter initially bought coverage on the individual insurance market created by the Affordable Care Act, but found the monthly premiums cost-prohibitive and let his coverage lapse at the end of 2016.

At Carter’s election night watch party, he mused to his wife about one of the personal benefits of his win. “You know what I won? Health insurance,” he recalled telling her.

Carter grew up in Elizabeth City, North Carolina, a suburb of Norfolk, Virginia. His father was a career officer in the U.S. Navy and Coast Guard, so when Carter finished high school, he saw enlisting in the Marine Corps as a natural path forward.

Carter served in the Marines from 2006 to 2011 in a division that was special operations-equipped. He was deployed to Haiti in 2010 to assist with the post-earthquake rescue and recovery efforts.

After his service as a Marine, he moved to Northern Virginia to look for work. Carter quickly met the woman who would become his wife, and they had a daughter who is now 6 years old.

Initially, Carter earned money fixing cancer therapy equipment. But the work was sporadic and labor-intensive, regularly requiring him to toil 80 hours a week.

When the Bella Rose Group, a small Georgia-based company, hired Carter to install lighting control panels, it was a major relief. The company paid him a flat salary for 40 hours of work every week, enabling him to spend more time with his family.


JACKSON MILLER CAMPAIGN
Lee Carter’s opponent, Del. Jackson Miller, attacked Carter for his membership in the Democratic Socialists of America. Voters flocked to him anyway.
Then he got injured on the job ― and his dream turned into a nightmare.

Carter’s electric shock and fall on his back resulted in the swelling of two vertebrae that pinched key nerves. His employer-provided insurance covered the pain medications and cortisol regimen he needed, but he had to pay a $2,000 deductible. He was also out of work for three months as his back recovered.

Every state in the country has a workers’ compensation program in place specifically to provide people like Carter recourse if they sustain an injury or medical condition on the job. Although benefits and eligibility standards vary, employees file claims to the state workers’ compensation body in pursuit of payments from their employer to cover out-of-pocket medical costs and a portion of their lost income. Employers with the means to do so typically purchase insurance plans that adjudicate these claims and pay the workers if the state board rules it is necessary.

The most common place to apply for workers’ compensation benefits is in the state where the injury occurred, according to multiple experts in workers’ compensation law.

Carter sustained the injury in Illinois and his employer was based in Georgia. But in September 2015, bedridden and on pain medications, Carter decided to file a workers’ compensation claim against the company with the state of Virginia. He reasoned that while Illinois was a resolutely pro-worker state and Georgia was equally pro-business, Virginia was the “Goldilocks” option ― the perfect balance that might make the Bella Rose Group likely to strike a deal with him.

“I figured let’s go with the least contentious state,” Carter said.

It ended up being a major mistake. For one thing, Carter was not dealing with the Bella Rose Group; he was dealing with the company’s insurer, Hanover Insurance Group. And like any profit-driven private insurance company, Hanover worked diligently within the bounds of the law to avoid paying out claims.

Carter called at least four Virginia-based lawyers in search of representation but they all refused, citing the complicated question of whether his claim was even in Virginia’s jurisdiction. He said none advised him to file in another state.

Representing himself before the state’s workers’ compensation commission in March 2016, Carter struggled to navigate the complexities of the law. Hanover argued the employer could not be held responsible for claims made in Virginia, where it had no place of business.

The commission ruled against Carter’s claim in a May 2016 decision, noting his contract was “consummated” in Georgia, and Virginia therefore had no jurisdiction over Carter’s injury.

To make matters worse, Carter believes the Bella Rose Group retaliated against him for filing the workers’ compensation claim by drastically diminishing his role with the company after he was healthy enough to return to the job.

The company moved him to a part-time schedule, where he would no longer receive employer-sponsored health insurance. He quickly realized he was not getting enough work to make ends meet, and quit after a few weeks.

Stefaney Caro, principal of the Bella Rose Group, denies the company retaliated against him.

“Regarding him working part time, we only had one customer that he could do work for and it wasn’t full time,” Caro said in an email.

I was doing a dangerous job to make their business successful, and when the dangers of that job caught up with me they threw me under the bus.
Lee Carter, Virginia delegate-elect
Several attorneys and policy experts that specialize in workers’ compensation law believe Virginia’s decision against Carter was a reasonable interpretation of the law. But they acknowledged his experience reflects some inadequacies of the workers’ compensation system.

The system was originally envisioned as a “grand bargain” between workers and employers that would give injured workers financial recourse while protecting companies from multimillion-dollar lawsuits, according to Michael Duff, a labor law professor at the University of Wyoming College of Law.

Now it’s so complex from state to state that workers need attorneys to represent them. And the lack of potential profitability of certain cases can make it hard for workers to find an attorney, said Duff, who went to law school following a stint as a unionized airline industry worker.

“There’s been this gradual erosion of workers’ compensation benefits, workers’ compensation coverage,” Duff said. “And the problem is, how can it be, that at the end of the day, a person has no remedy for an injury in which somebody certainly must be responsible?”

Regardless of the legal details, the experience made Carter furious ― at the law for failing workers, at the insurance company for overpowering him with legal arguments he struggled to understand, and at his employer for treating him like a “liability” rather than a “human.”

“It was just this deep-seated rage,” Carter recalled. “I was doing a dangerous job to make their business successful, and when the dangers of that job caught up with me they threw me under the bus.”

Carter’s trauma quickly turned into a political wake-up call. He had always voted for Democrats, albeit ambivalently at times. But he decided he needed to get active in progressive politics. He wanted to live in a country where no one ever had to go through what he experienced. He wanted workers to have more power in their workplace. He wanted single-payer health care and an end to corporate influence in politics.

As a resident of Manassas, in exurban Washington, D.C.’s Prince William County, Carter realized he was smack-dab in the middle of a state legislative swing district. In February 2016, he announced he would run for the House of Delegates.

Around the same time, Carter caught the Bernie Sanders bug, volunteering for his presidential campaign and serving as a Sanders delegate at the Virginia Democratic Party convention and the Democratic convention of Virginia’s 10th congressional district.

Sanders’ decision to ignore the stigma on what Carter calls “the s-word” set off another light bulb in the nascent legislative candidate’s head.

“Seeing how corporations will try to subvert the political process on both sides and seeing Bernie Sanders come out there and say, ‘I’m a democratic socialist and this is what I’m fighting for,’ those two things together, really made me take a look at exactly what democratic socialism is, and I found it very, very appealing,” Carter said.

“Democratic socialism” refers to an array of left-wing economic worldviews that exist within the confines of a liberal democratic political system. Its adherents range from supporters of single-payer health care systems and more generous social welfare states common in other wealthy nations, to backers of more radical economic reforms like granting workers an ownership stake in the means of production.

For Carter, democratic socialism is “really just working people having more power in the workplace,” he said. “When you have a workplace that’s run democratically by the people who work there, they’re not gonna vote to ship their own jobs to China, they’re not gonna downsize because of a new piece of technology.”

On the campaign trail, Carter was open about his political views and frequently shared the story of the electrical shock that inspired them.

His DSA membership proved to be a benefit, rather than a liability: His fellow rank-and-file members of the Metro D.C. DSA chapter provided crucial ground-game support. Carter credits them for knocking on half of the 20,000 doors his campaign reached in the final four days before the election.

For the most part though, he framed his ambitious progressive platform ―  support for statewide single-payer health care, a $15 minimum wage, an end to the state’s right-to-work status, a ban on all corporate money in state politics, and opposition to two natural gas pipelines ― as a message to his district’s voters that he would always be on their side.

Carter believes that his success in turning out working-class voters from his district’s large and growing Latino community was a key element of his win. Some of the Spanish-speaking old-timers in his district affectionately referred to the ginger-haired Carter as “El Rojo” ― the redhead.

“We were able to go out there and tell people that you’re finally going to have a voice in Richmond that will work to make life better for you and your family, day in and day out,” he said.

Now Carter is focused on advancing his policy agenda when the state legislature reconvenes in January. As a start on the road to single-payer, Carter hopes Democrats can expand Medicaid to another 400,000 low-income Virginians. Thanks to Tuesday’s electoral wave, the party is due to have a tie in the House of Delegates, which Democratic leaders believe puts expansion within their grasp.

But the first bill Carter plans to introduce in Richmond is a measure to strengthen protections for workers against employer retaliation for filing workers’ compensation claims.

“It’s kind of messed up that it was easier to run a two-year election and get 11,000 people to vote for me than it was to figure out the workers’ compensation system,” he said.



&&&&&

+++++

How The House GOP Tax Plan Soaks University Cooks, Custodians And Other Low-Paid Workers

2017-11-11

Ending a deduction that benefits university workers is even worse than people think, say two tax experts.

The tax reform plan introduced by House Republicans eliminates a number of tax deductions to pay for a series of tax cuts that mostly benefit the very wealthy.

One of the provisions it eliminates is a rule that allows graduate students to deduct from their taxes the tuition waivers they receive as a form of compensation from their universities. The proposed removal of the deduction has generated much uproar among research advocates who argue that it will discourage people from getting advanced degrees.

But ending the deduction would also hurt university employees who benefit from tuition waivers if they or their children attend the university where they work, noted a Friday blog post by Sam Brunson, a professor of tax law at Loyola University Chicago School of Law, and Michael Austin, executive vice president of academic affairs at the University of Evansville.

For well-paid university administrators or star professors, paying taxes on this benefit is likely a manageable, though significant, burden.

But for secretaries, janitors and security guards on the university’s payroll receiving free college tuition, ending the exemption would be financially onerous. That’s especially disconcerting because being able to pay for a free college education often enables the children of these working-class employees to move up the socioeconomic ladder.

“Tuition waivers can be a life-changing opportunity for some of our lowest-paid employees,” Brunson and Austin write.


TOM WILLIAMS/GETTY IMAGES
House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) conducts his weekly news conference on Nov. 9.

To make matters worse, Brunson and Austin write, the income tax on the tuition waiver would tax the “full sticker price of tuition” rather than the discounted rate universities provide for most students. As a result, low-earning university employees could find themselves paying taxes on income that is worth far more than the university tuition would cost in practice.

The two experts cite as an example an administrative assistant earning $30,000 a year. If she sends two children to college courtesy of the university, and the school’s “sticker-price” tuition is $35,000 a student, the government will tax her as if she earned $70,000 more than her salary ― for a total of $100,000 in taxable income.

“What this means is that fewer college employees, and fewer of their children, are going to have the opportunity to attend college because the life-changing benefit of a tuition waiver will become too expensive for them to afford,” Brunson and Austin write. “Of course, just as it does with graduate students, this limitation applies only to those without personal or family resources. Those with such resources will be fine.”

“And this is why it matters: access to higher education remains the only thing standing between the current United States and a society of hereditary privilege and permanent class divisions,” they add. “The proper term for such a society is an ‘aristocracy,’ and it is precisely what our country was founded not to be.”

University employees still have some hope: The Senate’s version of tax bill kept the deduction for tuition waivers in place. But if the Republican Congress is able to hash out a compromise between the two bills, there is no guarantee the provision will make it into the final legislation that heads to President Donald Trump’s desk.




&&&&&

+++++

2 GOP Senators Drop Endorsements Of Roy Moore

2017-11-10

Sens. Steve Daines (Mont.) and Mike Lee (Utah) announced their decision Friday evening.

Update: Sen. Bill Cassidy (La.) withdrew his support of Roy Moore on Saturday, joining Sens. Steve Daines (Mont.) and Mike Lee (Utah).

Earlier: Two Republican senators withdrew their endorsements of Roy Moore on Friday evening, becoming the first prominent politicians to drop their support for the Alabama Republican nominee in the U.S. Senate race. 

Moore has been under fire since The Washington Post published a report Thursday detailing allegations from four women who said Moore pursued them when they were teenagers and he was in his 30s. 

The most serious story came from Leigh Corfman, who said she was just 14 when Moore sexually assaulted her. 

While some GOP politicians have said Moore should step aside, Sens. Steve Daines (Mont.) and Mike Lee (Utah) are the first Moore backers to do so. 

Daines made his announcement on Twitter.

Lee revealed his decision to a writer for The Washingtonian, citing both the accusations of Moore’s misconduct and his response to the allegations.

The National Republican Senatorial Committee, the campaign arm of the Senate GOP, also severed financial ties with Moore on Friday.

Moore, a far-right social conservative twice removed from the Alabama Supreme Court for defying federal court orders, was never the so-called Republican establishment’s preferred candidate to fill the Senate seat vacated by the appointment of Attorney General Jeff Sessions. 

But with the backing of Steve Bannon, President Donald Trump’s former chief strategist, Moore defeated interim Sen. Luther Strange (R-Ala.) in the GOP primary in September. Trump had endorsed Strange, and a super PAC associated with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) spent millions trying to quash Moore’s bid.

Moore has drawn the ire of civil rights groups for his extreme positions. Among other stances, Moore has argued that homosexual intercourse should be illegal and that Muslims should not be allowed to serve in Congress.

Once Moore became the nominee, however, the national Republican Party mostly embraced him, with at least one GOP lawmaker offering that he thought Moore would support tax cuts, a key Republican priority. Moore faces Democrat Doug Jones, a former U.S. attorney, in a Dec. 12 special election.

Since the Post published the accusations of sexual misconduct on Thursday, most GOP leaders have remained hesitant to completely disavow him. McConnell and other prominent Republican senators insisted on a wait-and-see approach on Thursday, arguing that Moore should drop out if additional proof emerges verifying the accounts of the women who spoke to the Post.

In Moore’s more detailed response to the accusations on Friday ― the comments that rankled Sen. Lee ― he only firmly denied assaulting Corfman, who claims he engaged in unwanted kissing and groping when she was 14.

“It never happened, and I don’t even like hearing it,” Moore said on Sean Hannity’s radio show on Friday.

He conceded in the interview that he knew two of the other women, who were 17 and 18 when they say Moore tried to date them, but claimed he never gave them alcohol and he didn’t remember trying to date them.

Asked by Hannity if he remembered dating teenagers when he was in his 30s, Moore said, “Not generally, no.”

“I don’t remember that, or dating any girl without the permission of her mother,” he added.

This article has been updated with more details on the accusations against Roy Moore and his denial Friday.

&&&&&

+++++

How Democrats Won Big In The Virginia House — And Why It Matters

2017-11-08

The party exceeded the rosiest expectations for the legislature’s lower chamber.

Democrat Ralph Northam won the closely watched race for Virginia governor by a comfortable margin. Given the stakes of the contest, it’s not surprising that the victory dominated headlines.

But the more stunning news came down ballot in the Virginia House of Delegates, where Democrats flipped 16 Republican seats ― nearly seizing control of the chamber. The scale of the House victories was a shock to even the most dedicated partisans, one of whom predicted, days before the election, that picking up six to eight House seats would count as a “success.”

Asked on a Wednesday call with reporters which individual wins surprised him the most, House Democratic Leader David Toscano joked, “How ’bout 16?”

“What surprised me was how many there were,” Toscano continued. “All of these people ran very good campaigns, and you could see how they could win, you just didn’t think they would all win.”

The final results are in flux. In five races, the victor won by a margin of 1 percentage point or less, which is the threshold for a candidate to request a recount. Democrats won two of those races, while Republicans won three.


ALISSA SCHELLER/HUFFPOST
If the current count of 16 Democratic pickups sticks ― an effective 32-seat swing ― the parties would be tied 50-50 in the House, prompting an unusual power-sharing arrangement in which they divide committee chairmanships and other key posts.

Either party may yet pick up an additional seat through the examination of provisional ballots or a recount. The most promising opportunity for Democrats is in the 94th District, where Republican David Yancey defeated Democrat Shelly Simonds by just 12 votes.

Even if Democrats’ total gain were to decline by a seat or two in the coming days, it is impossible to overstate how much the election will shift the House’s balance of power. Republicans now hold a 66-34 majority that they had solidified through partisan gerrymandering conducted in 2011. With a tie, or even less, Democrats could approve major legislation by swinging just one or two Republicans, Toscano noted.

Some priorities that Toscano suggested are now in reach include expanding Medicaid to cover 400,000 more low-income Virginians, passing a bill providing paid family leave for state residents and raising the state’s minimum wage.

“There is no doubt the dynamic is going to change dramatically this January,” Toscano predicted.


J. LAWLER DUGGAN/FOR THE WASHINGTON POST VIA GETTY IMAGES
Democrat Danica Roem is set to become the country’s first transgender state lawmaker. She was part of the wave of Democratic victories in the Virginia House of Delegates.
The Democratic caucus itself is due to become more progressive as well, especially when it comes to issues of monopoly power and corporate influence.

Thirteen Democratic candidates who made the progressive group Activate Virginia’s pledge to refuse donations from the state-regulated power companies Dominion and Appalachian Power were victorious.

The party is now likely to have a livelier debate about a bill introduced by a Democratic state senator that would prohibit lawmakers and candidates from accepting contributions from any state-regulated utility, which includes power providers and telecommunications companies.

“That bill is going to come up, and there is going to be a lot of support for it. We’ll just have to see how much support there is,” Toscano said.

Of course, if major legislation passes the House, there is no guarantee that it will become law, since Republicans hold a 21-19 majority in the state Senate. But there is also no telling whether that Senate majority, which faces reelections in 2019, will march in lockstep now that Democrats have pulled off such a stunning performance in the House.

We really boiled this down to the values.
Joshua Ulibarri, Democratic pollster
The single biggest factor behind the success of House Democrats at the polls is the same one that propelled Northam to victory in the governor’s race: President Donald Trump.

Democratic rival Hillary Clinton defeated Trump by 5 percentage points in Virginia last year. And, notwithstanding the GOP’s gerrymandering of the state legislative districts, voters in 17 GOP-held House districts voted for her as well. (As of Wednesday afternoon, Democrats had flipped 15 of those 17 seats and one seat in a district where Trump won.)

The math provided Democrats with a prime candidate recruitment opportunity. But, for the most part, the candidates came to them, galvanized by anger over Trump’s election to become civically engaged.

They were teachers, lawyers, techies, veterans, civil servants and at least one former TV news anchor; they were black, white, Latino and Asian; they were cisgender and transgender; and they hailed from all corners of the state, rural, suburban and urban alike.

At one point in March, months before the Democratic primaries, the party had reeled in 74 candidates to contest 47 GOP-held districts. In the end they were able to run candidates in 88 out of 100 House districts, more candidates than they have had since anyone in the party can remember.

“We found that the enthusiasm we had was unprecedented, and we began to see Virginia as a potential bellwether election as a test of the Trump presidency,” Toscano recalled.

Women were especially motivated to jump in the race, thanks in no small part to the Jan. 21 Women’s March. Hala Ayala, delegate-elect in Virginia’s 51st District, organized a massive contingent of participants in the main Washington, D.C., march from Virginia. Kelly Fowler, delegate-elect in the 21st District, took her daughter to the march on her 8th birthday and came away from the experience inspired to run.

In the end, 11 more Democratic women were elected to House seats, bringing the total number of House Democratic women to 23, or nearly half.

“When you look at the margins of victory, it speaks to the strength of these women’s candidacy and their ability to connect to both male and female voters,” House Democratic Caucus Chair Charniele Herring said on the call with reporters.

Voter excitement mirrored that of the abundant pool of candidates. Democrats were not only more motivated than Republican voters, but they “consolidated” behind Democratic candidates earlier in the cycle, according to Joshua Ulibarri of Lake Research Partners, who conducted polling for the caucus.

“Ten to 15 percent more Democrats were saying they were voting for Democrats than two years ago,” Ulibarri said on the Wednesday press call. “In the past, in these districts, [some Democrats] would hold out before they decided or they would vote for Republicans.” 

Given the Republican bent of many of the gerrymandered districts and the reality that not even Republican-leaning voters’ disdain for Trump would be enough to get them to vote out Republican delegates, however, the party needed more than just anti-Trump fervor, according to Ulibarri. Ulibarri devised district-specific ways to “define these Democrats as separate from other Democrats, and to define these Republicans as exceptionally worse than any other Republican.”

For example, to boost Ayala’s bid, Ulibarri worked early on to emphasize her background as a cybersecurity specialist for the Department of Homeland Security.

It was “really hard ... to say Hala is weak on crime or immigration or MS-13 [gang activity] when we’ve defined her as a cybersecurity specialist,” Ulibarri said.

In terms of specific policies that helped Democrats politically, expanding access to affordable health care was “consistently a top-three issue” in Virginia, in a way that it hadn’t been in previous cycles, according to Ulibarri.

In 2015, Ulibarri recalled, expanding health care access resonated moderately with voters, mainly as a pragmatic question of creating health care jobs and taking advantage of the federal funding for Medicaid expansion.

This year, however, in the wake of Republican efforts in the U.S. Capitol to repeal the Affordable Care Act, Virginians were much more receptive to arguments that “giving people more access to affordable health care, period,” was an intrinsically positive value, Ulibarri said.

“Not jobs ... not something formulaic like that ― but the value,” he said. “We really boiled this down to the values.”


JAY WESTCOTT/FOR THE WASHINGTON POST VIA GETTY IMAGES
Democrat Chris Hurst campaigns for a state House seat in southwest Virginia. The former TV anchor unseated a three-term Republican on Tuesday.
Individual Democrats who won in swing districts also emphasized the importance of an aggressive bricks-and-mortar ground game in generating high turnout among key voter groups in the state’s notoriously quirky off-year elections.

Lee Carter, delegate-elect in the 50th District, which includes the outer Washington suburb of Manassas, knocked on about 20,000 doors in the last four days of his campaign.

Carter, a former Marine and outspoken leftist, had a dispute with the state party that resulted in it cutting off assistance to him. Carter also raised less than half of the funds of his opponent, Del. Jackson Miller, the GOP majority whip. But with the help of his fellow members of the Democratic Socialists of America, who Carter estimated knocked on half of the doors in the final stretch, he won by nearly 10 percentage points. 

“The things that we were talking about were things that were immensely popular with the Democratic Party voter base and the Democratic Party coalition as a whole,” Carter told HuffPost. “We were going out and talking about making lives better for working people, making Virginia the kind of place where anyone can live and work and not worry about how they’re going to put food on the table or how they’re going to make the rent.”

The result is a stunning electoral performance that produced a class of Virginia House Democrats that will be the most diverse in the party’s history.

The newcomers include many people who are the first of their minority group to hold the office.

Danica Roem, delegate-elect for the 13th District, is the state’s first transgender state lawmaker. Roem dispatched Republican Bob Marshall, whose social conservatism is so notorious that LGBTQ groups dubbed him “Bigot Bob.” Marshall introduced a bill banning public school students from using the bathroom of their choice and refused to call Roem by her preferred pronoun of “she” during the campaign.

Elizabeth Guzman, delegate-elect for the 31st District, and Hala Ayala will be the chamber’s first Latina members. Fowler, delegate-elect for the 21st District, and Kathy Tran, delegate-elect for the 42nd who came to Virginia as a Vietnamese refugee when she was a child, will be the first Asian-American women in the lower chamber.

Dawn Adams, delegate-elect for the 68th District, will become the state’s first openly lesbian lawmaker.

We were going out and talking about making lives better for working people.
Lee Carter, delegate-elect, Virginia’s 50th House District
The new batch of Democrats also features its share of lawmakers with compelling personal stories. Chris Hurst, delegate-elect for the 12th District, is a former TV news anchor inspired to run for office by the tragic on-air shooting death of his girlfriend.

The party’s performance was so strong that there is even evidence the House races boosted Northam’s numbers for governor. It’s the reverse of the top of the ticket typically helping candidates farther down the ballot.

In Republican-held precincts with a Democratic House challenger, there was a 20 percent jump in votes for the Democratic gubernatorial candidate relative to 2013, according to an analysis of voter data conducted by Reed Shaw, a former Barack Obama presidential campaign data specialist, and shared with HuffPost. In GOP precincts without a Democratic House challenger, there was no change from the 2015 gubernatorial numbers, Shaw found.

The state Democratic Party’s coordinated campaign, in which it pooled efforts to elect Northam, other statewide candidates and House candidates, knocked on more doors at the behest of House Democratic operatives, according to Ulibarri.

The staffers thought that more canvassing was necessary to clinch races for House Democrats, but it likely had the effect of increasing Northam’s margin as well, Ulibarri posited.

“I don’t think we take credit for [Northam’s win] for sure, but from a 5- to an 8-point lead, I think there is a lot going into that on the House side.”


&&&&&

+++++

Progressive Firebrand Vincent Fort Falls Short In Atlanta Mayoral Race

2017-11-08

Fort’s populist bid drew attention to challenges facing the city’s working class.

Vincent Fort, a former Georgia state senator backed by Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), fell short in his run for mayor of Atlanta on Tuesday, denying progressive activists a clean sweep in the Southeastern cities that have held mayoral elections in the past year.

City Councilwoman Keisha Lance Bottoms and City Councilwoman Mary Norwood will proceed to the runoff, having earned 26 percent and 21 percent of the vote, respectively.

Former City Councilwoman Cathy Woolard received 17 percent of the vote, followed by former city manager Peter Aman with 11 percent and Fort with 10 percent.

The outcome means that Atlantans likely will not have the opportunity to dramatically break with the substance and style of the city’s present leadership at a time when working-class and poor residents feel increasingly threatened by gentrification.

“Vince Fort’s election was always a huge uphill climb considering the huge amounts of money from developers and contractors some of his opponents are spending,” said Joe Dinkin, national communications director for the Working Families Party, a progressive organization campaigning for Fort. “No matter the outcome, no matter the ultimate mayor, Vincent Fort ensured that the issues of working-class people and poor people, people of color in Atlanta, were at the center of the debate, and all the candidates are gonna have to be responsive to those.”

Fort, a ball of passionate energy with a mustache and black-frame glasses, rose to the rank of Democratic whip over two decades in the state Senate. He’d promised an about-face in city development policies that, he argued, prioritize wealthy developers over the city’s working families.

Fort frequently pointed to his record as the author of Georgia’s landmark predatory lending law, and his decades of street activism in defense of families facing eviction, as evidence that he was the only mayoral contender who could be trusted to fight for ordinary people.

“This is serious business, because we’ve gone from 20 percent gentrified to 70 percent gentrified at something like 5 percent a year,” Fort told HuffPost in an extended interview at his Atlanta campaign offices. “And if the wrong person gets elected on Nov. 7, guess what? You’re going to have by 2021, the end of the next administration, it could very well be impossible to revert. That’s how high the stakes are.”

Liberal challengers have unseated mayoral incumbents in Jackson, Mississippi, and Birmingham, Alabama, this year. A progressive reformer is also favored to become mayor of New Orleans in a Nov. 18 runoff.

Left-leaning organizations like Sanders’ Our Revolution and the Working Families Party were hoping a Fort victory would add Atlanta to their Southern winning streak.

But Atlanta, a city of nearly half a million people that serves as the de facto commercial capital of the region, is notoriously impervious to populist politics.

Much was at stake in the Atlanta race ― and the city’s potent business community knew it. Fort promised to negotiate a better deal for Atlanta workers and end corrupt practices that reward crony contractors, including through the institution of an inspector general at City Hall. The city oversees contracting at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, the busiest airport on the planet.

Consequently, as Dinkin noted, Fort’s rivals raised far more money than he did. As of the start of the month, the field’s two leaders, City Councilwomen Norwood and Lance Bottoms, raised $1.5 million and $1.2 million, respectively.

Of Lance Bottoms’ total haul, $23,525 of it came from people associated with airport contractor Master ConcessionAir, who used fuzzy accounting to get around individual contribution limits.

Fort, by contrast, raised $506,000 ― much of it in small increments.

RELATED...
What Democrats Can Learn From An Atlanta Progressive’s Underdog Mayoral Bid
Fort also faced vocal opposition from Mayor Kasim Reed (D), a political rival of Fort’s who is backing Lance Bottoms. In February, Reed called Fort “one of the most disappointing human beings” he’d ever met, and subsequently went after Fort for his personal financial troubles at a press conference.

The insurgent nature of Fort’s campaign was apparent until the very end. On Tuesday afternoon, Atlanta police arrested Tim Franzen, Fort’s community outreach director and a longtime housing justice organizer in the city, just outside campaign headquarters.

A run of Franzen’s tag revealed that he was driving with a suspended license, city police told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.

Fort told HuffPost this might be the case — but, he said, it still wasn’t clear why police pulled Franzen over in the first place.

As a former leader of Occupy Atlanta and frequent participant in Atlanta’s civil disobedience actions, Franzen has alleged that the police routinely harass him and target him for unjustified arrests.

Tuesday’s arrest “reeks of politics,” Fort told HuffPost, calling it an example of the kind of injustice that inspired his mayoral run.

“The Bill of Rights unfortunately does not extend to all parts of the city and to all people,” Fort said. “If you’re an activist and you stand up against the establishment, you’ll be targeted.”

Carlos Campos, an Atlanta police spokesman, called Fort’s claim “patently false and absurd on its face.”

“Mr. Franzen was driving on a suspended license, which is illegal,” Campos told the Journal-Constitution. “It is the only reason his vehicle was stopped.”

The Atlanta Police Department did not respond to a request for comment for this article.


&&&&&

+++++

Former TV News Anchor With Tragic Story Unseats Republican In Southwest Virginia

2017-11-07

The on-air shooting death of Chris Hurst’s girlfriend inspired him to run for office.

A former TV news anchor whose girlfriend died in an on-air shooting two years ago unseated a Republican incumbent in Virginia’s House of Delegates on Tuesday.

Democrat Chris Hurst defeated three-term incumbent Del. Joseph Yost (R) in Virginia’s 12th district by a 54 to 46 percent margin, with 97 percent of precincts reporting.

Hurst, 30, was the evening news anchor at regional channel WDBJ Channel 7 in August 2015 when a disgruntled ex-employee of the station shot and killed Allison Parker, Hurst’s colleague and girlfriend, during a live news appearance. The shooter also killed the cameraman who was with her.

Hurst moved from Roanoke to Blacksburg in January and announced his decision to run for office shortly thereafter.

“I owe the residents of southwest Virginia a debt of gratitude that I don’t think I’ll ever be able to repay. But this seems like something worthy of what they did for me,” Hurst told HuffPost in a lengthy interview in July.


THE WASHINGTON POST/GETTY IMAGES
Democrat Chris Hurst, right, canvasses in Blacksburg, Virginia, in July. Hurst unseated Republican Joseph Yost on Tuesday.
Democrats were expected to flip several seats in Northern Virginia suburbs.

But Hurst’s Southwest Virginia district, which stretches from Blacksburg, home of Virginia Tech, to the rural hollers of Giles County along the West Virginia border, was a tougher get.

The 12th district’s political breakdown makes it a near-perfect toss-up for Democrats. It was one of 17 GOP-held seats where voters opted for Hillary Clinton over Donald Trump in 2016, but only by a 2-point margin, leaving little room for error.

Hurst’s solid defeat of Yost, a well-liked 31-year-old son of Giles County, reflects the Democratic Party’s strong performance on Tuesday.

Hurst also had a major advantage thanks to his name recognition and the enduring popularity of local TV news personalities. As an award-winning former investigative reporter, Hurst campaigned on taking the same intrepid spirit that informed his work as a journalist to the state House on behalf of his constituents. 

Phyllis Niece, 77, could not remember the last time she had voted in any election, but told HuffPost in July that she planned to cast a ballot for Hurst.

Her reason? “He was on the news.”

Although Hurst was open about his support for tougher gun safety measures like closing background check loopholes, he was clear that it was not the main focus of his campaign.

“If I was someone who was solely focused on one issue, then I would have been an activist on that one issue,” Hurst told HuffPost.

Instead, Hurst ran on using Affordable Care Act funds to expand Medicaid, protecting reproductive rights and beefing up funding for rural schools.

His base of support was in Democratic-leaning Blacksburg, but he frequently ventured to deep-red Giles County, drawing a crowd of nearly 100 people at a meet-and-greet in Narrows, Virginia, on a Friday evening in July.

Hurst bucked Virginia’s top Democrats, including Gov. Terry McAuliffe and Governor-elect Ralph Northam, in opposing the construction of the Mountain Valley pipeline due to run through his district.

“He’s his own man,” House Democratic leader David Toscano said of Hurst in July. “That actually shows his strength that he is willing to go against a Democratic governor if it hurts the constituents in his district.”


&&&&&

+++++

Virginia Elects Its First Openly Transgender State Lawmaker

2017-11-07

Democrat Danica Roem defeated the Republican who wrote the anti-trans bathroom bill.

Democrat Danica Roem defeated Virginia Del. Bob Marshall (R) on Tuesday, becoming the first openly transgender state lawmaker in Virginia.

Roem is now delegate-elect for Virginia’s 13th House of Delegates district, which includes outer suburbs of Washington.

The voters of Virginia’s 13th District chose Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton over Republican Donald Trump by 14 percentage points in the 2016 election, giving Roem favorable odds going into the election.

Roem’s historic victory, which was called about an hour after polls closed,  elated LGBTQ advocates. The outcome was that much sweeter because Marshall co-sponsored a 2006 Virginia constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage that prompted LGBTQ activists to dub him “Bigot Bob.” Marshall, who once referred to himself as Virginia’s “chief homophobe,” also introduced the bill that would have banned transgender public school students from using the bathrooms of their choice.

“Tonight voters chose a smart, solutions-oriented trans leader over a divisive anti-LGBTQ demagogue – sending a powerful message to anti-trans legislators all across the nation,” Aisha Moodie-Mills, president of the Gay & Lesbian Victory Fund, said in a statement. “Danica defeated ‘Bigot Bob’ Marshall not because she is transgender, but because she presented a positive vision for her constituents that will improve their lives.”

Roem ran in one of 17 GOP-held districts where Clinton prevailed in 2016. Her early win suggested that Democrats were on their way to a good night at the polls.

Roem ran on a platform of improving the state’s infrastructure, including State Route 28, raising teacher salaries, and championing LGBTQ and immigrant rights.

Although many civil rights groups have hailed Roem as the country’s first openly transgender state lawmaker, Stacie Laughton, an openly transgender woman, won a seat in New Hampshire’s legislature in 2012, but Laughton resigned before taking office.

In Massachusetts, closeted transgender woman Althea Garrison won a seat in the legislature in 1992. A conservative newspaper subsequently outed her for having been a man.

CORRECTION: A previous version of this story incorrectly stated Roem was the first trans state lawmaker in the country.


&&&&&

+++++

Virginia Democrat Wins Race For Governor, Handing GOP First Major Loss Under Trump

2017-11-07

Democrats are “breathing a sigh of relief,” a Virginia politics expert says.

Democrat Ralph Northam defeated Republican Ed Gillespie in Virginia’s gubernatorial election Tuesday, granting Democrats their first major victory, and Republicans their first big loss, since the election of President Donald Trump.

Northam beat Gillespie by a comfortable margin of 54 to 45 percent.

The stakes of the closely fought race were especially high for Democrats, who were desperate to hold on to a governorship in a state with a popular Democratic governor and where Hillary Clinton defeated Trump by 5 percentage points in 2016.

The outcome provides rank-and-file Democrats with a much-needed injection of optimism, averting the catastrophic scenario of another crucial loss. 

It also deals a blow to the Trump-like right-wing populist playbook that Gillespie employed in his bid to win.

“Democrats were anxious all along, at the very end, about whether this thing would go their way, whether their core vote would turn out for them. And it did,” said Quentin Kidd, a political science professor at Christopher Newport University in Newport News, Virginia. “They’re breathing a sigh of relief.”

What’s more, the significant size of Northam’s win bodes well for Democrats across the country in the 2018 midterm elections, according to Kidd.

“Everything we thought was happening was actually happening,” he said. “There was a lot of pent up anger and frustration in the Democratic electorate.”


WIN MCNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES
Democrat Ralph Northam defeated Republican Ed Gillespie in the nation’s closest watched election on Tuesday.

Northam had held a modest advantage in an average of major polls on Election Day. But the wide variation in individual polls toward the end of the contest spooked many Democrats who had anticipated a more certain victory.

Northam, 58, a pediatric neurologist and the current lieutenant governor, ran a mainstream Democratic campaign that emphasized his all-American biography. Northam is a graduate of the Virginia Military Institute who served as an Army doctor during Operation Desert Storm before establishing a practice in southeast Virginia’s Hampton Roads region.

Northam campaigned on continuing the work of Gov. Terry McAuliffe (D), who has presided over sustained economic growth and restored the voting rights of 168,000 former felons.

Northam also proposed increasing public school funding, providing tuition-free community college education in key areas of study for students who pledge a year of service, and using Affordable Care Act funds to expand Medicaid.

Northam will have the important opportunity to play a role the next time the state legislature redraws congressional and state districts in 2021. As governor, he will have the power to veto a plan submitted by the Republican legislature if he believes the makeup of the new districts is unduly partisan.

More than any one policy outcome, however, Northam’s win delights progressives for what it denies the GOP: another vindication of Trump-like race baiting.

Gillespie, 56, a former chairman of the Republican National Committee and a Beltway lobbyist, once embodied the socially moderate, fiscally conservative establishment wing of the Republican Party. And to some extent, Gillespie maintained this profile, emphasizing economic policy on the stump, including a proposal to cut Virginia’s income tax rates by 10 percent across the board.

But in a bid to shore up a wayward right-wing base that nearly handed populist Corey Stewart the nomination in a tough GOP primary, Gillespie embraced the Trump playbook.

In a barrage of negative advertisements, Gillespie sought to paint Northam as a frightening radical who would enable convicted sex offenders, undocumented immigrants and members of the El Salvadoran gang MS-13 to run amok in the Old Dominion State. He also claimed that Northam wanted to take down the state’s Confederate monuments, despite Northam’s assurances that he would allow localities to decide.

Ultimately, Gillespie’s approach scared off too many of the voters he needed to win in the increasingly Democratic-leaning state.

“Gillespie tried to do two things: He tried to run on white identity politics and Republican economics,” Kidd said. “Republicans have to decide which of those two they’re going to run on because they probably can’t do both at same time.”



&&&&&

+++++

Democrats Are Terrified Of Losing Virginia’s Big Election. They Should Be.

2017-11-06

A loss in a state won by Hillary Clinton would be a major blow for the party.

In Virginia’s gubernatorial race on Tuesday, the Democratic Party has a chance to score its first major political win since President Donald Trump’s election.

Many Democrats worry, however, that the party is going to blow what once seemed like a made-to-order opportunity.

A victory for Democrat Ralph Northam, the current lieutenant governor, would provide the restive party a much-needed dose of optimism. But the consequences of a win by Republican Ed Gillespie, an inveterate Beltway power broker, would have reverberations far beyond Tuesday.  

It would signal to Republicans, once wary of Trump’s toxicity, that wielding his brand of right-wing populism is a winning strategy ― even in a state with a popular Democratic governor that Hillary Clinton carried by a 5-percentage-point margin in the 2016 presidential election.

“It will be incredibly demoralizing,” said Yasmin Taeb, a Virginia Democratic National Committee member who has been volunteering for Northam’s campaign.

Taeb, who organized many of the Washington-based protests against Trump’s ban on travel from majority-Muslim countries, frets that a Northam loss could dull the enthusiasm of many of the people inspired to become politically active by the president’s election.

“If they feel as though they’ve been showing up since January, and it ends up not paying off on Nov. 7, I’m worried that we’ll see a lot of folks dropping off,” she said.

And that could hurt Democrats in other states in the 2018 midterm elections, in which the party hopes that anti-Trump fervor will propel it to gains. 


ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES
Democrat Ralph Northam hopes to avoid a demoralizing loss for his party in Virginia’s gubernatorial election on Tuesday. Polling suggests the race is very close.
If Northam loses, it will not be because of a lack of investment from state and national Democrats. His campaign had raised nearly $34 million as of the end of October, including some $7 million from the Democratic Governors Association. Gillespie, by contrast, had raised $24.5 million, of which some $10 million came from the Republican Governors Association.

The DNC also spent $1.5 million to help elect Northam and other Democratic candidates in the state. The Republican National Committee has spent $5 million to boost Republicans up and down the ballot.

The net result is a race where Northam and Gillespie are neck-and-neck. In RealClearPolitics’ average of major polls, Northam leads by 3.3 percentage points ― a sum within the margin of statistical error in most surveys.  

Rather than suggesting a clear favorite in the race, the polling underscores a high level of uncertainty ahead of Tuesday’s results. Recent surveys have shown wildly disparate figures ― one poll showed a 17-point lead for the Democrat, another an 8-point advantage for his rival. Reasons for the disparity likely include differences in methodology and in estimates of who is likely to turn out.

Every statewide candidate officially runs independently in Virginia. But Northam is part of a de facto joint Democratic ticket with Justin Fairfax, running for lieutenant governor, and Attorney General Mark Herring, who is up for re-election. If elected, Fairfax, a 38-year-old attorney from the Washington suburb of Annandale, would be Virginia’s second black statewide elected official. (The first, Democrat Douglas Wilder, served as governor from 1990-1994.)


JIM WATSON/GETTY IMAGES
Former President Barack Obama spoke at a campaign rally for Ralph Northam in Richmond, Virginia, on Oct. 19, 2017.
As a candidate, Northam, a 58-year-old pediatric neurologist, has emphasized his all-American biography and career. Born and raised on Virginia’s rural Eastern Shore, he graduated from the Virginia Military Institute and worked as an Army doctor during Operation Desert Storm before building a successful medical practice in the Hampton Roads region of southeast Virginia.

Northam has a long history as a moderate Democrat. He has admitted to voting for George W. Bush in the 2000 and 2004 presidential elections ―  votes he has said he regrets and attributes to his political inattentiveness at the time. As a state senator in 2009, Northam flirted with switching parties, and during his 2011 re-election bid, he described health care as a “privilege.”

Northam’s past stances and initial reluctance to make the race a referendum on Trump prompted a robust primary challenge from former Rep. Tom Perriello. Perriello’s backers included Sens. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), as well as Our Revolution, the legacy organization from Sanders’ presidential campaign. Northam, who had the support of virtually every elected Democrat in Virginia, responded by revving up his anti-Trump rhetoric and tacking to the left on several economic issues. He ended up handily defeating Perriello in June.

In the general election, Northam has run on a relatively mainstream Democratic platform, including protecting women’s reproductive rights, using Affordable Care Act funds to expand Medicaid in the state, continuing to restore the voting rights of felons who have completed their sentences and increasing public education funding. He has touted the state’s strong economic performance under his and Gov. Terry McAuliffe’s leadership. And he has proposed providing free tuition for two years of community college or trade school in high-demand fields like information technology and health care, so long as the people who get their degrees commit to a year of public service of some kind. 

Perhaps most of all, Northam has sought to appeal to widespread disdain for Trump in Virginia ― where, according to one recent poll, just 34 percent of residents approve of the job the president is doing.

But at times, Northam has appeared to be straining to appease all sides of the political spectrum. He puzzled observers with an ad promising that if Trump, the man Northam once called a “narcissistic maniac,” is “helping Virginia, I’ll work with him.” And last week, he said that as governor he would sign legisation banning “sanctuary cities” ― municipalities that limit their cooperation with federal immigration authorities. His comment dismayed progressives, and prompted one group to call his stance “gutless” and “racist.”

The flap shifted scarce media and activist attention to an internecine dispute in the final days before the election, and prompted hand-wringing about whether Northam was a strong candidate.

“If Northam loses, the progressive left says, ‘Perriello would have won because he would have run as a progressive populist and that’s what the base of Democratic Party is yearning for right now,’” said Quentin Kidd, a political science professor at Christopher Newport University in Newport News, Virginia.


THE WASHINGTON POST/GETTY IMAGES
Ed Gillespie survived a tougher-than-expected primary challenge to emerge as the Republican gubernatorial nominee in Virginia.

Gillespie, 56, a former RNC chairman and longtime corporate lobbyist who grew up in New Jersey, personifies the kind of pro-business establishment Republican who is increasingly rare in national politics. As a GOP official and onetime White House aide to George W. Bush, Gillespie pushed the party to become more welcoming to people of color and backed comprehensive immigration reform that would provide a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants.

Right-wing populist and Trump campaign veteran Corey Stewart waged a nasty primary challenge against Gillespie fueled largely by promises to crack down on undocumented immigrants and safeguard Virginia’s Confederate monuments and heritage. Stewart even adopted a Trump-like epithet for Gillespie, deriding him as “Establishment Ed.” Gillespie ultimately prevailed, but by a shockingly close margin of just one percentage point.

Gillespie responded to the near-fatal populist challenge by doing his utmost to shore up the rural right-wing base that turned out for Stewart.

On the campaign trail, Gillespie has stuck to traditional, fiscally conservative Republican talking points. The heart of his platform is a proposal to cut Virginia income taxes by 10 percent across the board, one of several policies he argues will jump-start the state’s economic growth.

But on the airwaves, Gillespie has launched a scorched-earth campaign to paint Northam as an enabler of sexual predators and gangs of undocumented immigrants. In ads rife with racial overtones that began in September, Gillespie argued that policies embraced by his opponent have allowed the El Salvadoran gang MS-13 to run amok in Virginia.

Gillespie’s ads also have said that Northam, as governor, would try to strip Virginia of its Confederate history ― something the Republican stresses he won’t do.

Given Gillespie’s decision to pander to Virginia’s white-resentment-fueled right wing, a victory for him will again show Republicans that racial fear-mongering is a winning electoral strategy, said Kidd, the political science professor.

“Ironically, Republicans have criticized Democrats for two decades at least for running identity political campaigns, but Republicans ran what has by and large been an identity politics campaign with a little economic populism mixed in,” Kidd said. “If Gillespie wins it might mark another front in the culture wars in which Republicans embrace white identity politics.”

Indeed, other Republican candidates across the country are attacking Democrats by tying their policies to gang violence.

A Gillespie victory would almost certainly magnify that effect because it would occur in Virginia, “the place where [Trump] lost,” said Christian Dorsey, a Democrat on the Arlington County, Virginia, board of supervisors.


SARA D. DAVIS/GETTY IMAGES
Vice President Mike Pence joined fellow Republican Ed Gillespie at a rally in Abingdon, Virginia, on Oct. 14, 2017. Gillespie decided not to invite President Donald Trump to campaign for him.
Of course, the most concrete impact of a Republican victory would be in the Old Dominion State itself, where McAuliffe has stood as a self-described “brick wall” between Virginians and the socially conservative policies of the Republican-controlled legislature ― particularly efforts to curb women’s reproductive rights. He has vetoed more bills than any governor in Virginia’s history, stymieing legislation that would have defunded Planned Parenthood, restricted voting rights and expanded access to handguns.

For Virginia Democrats, their neighboring state of North Carolina, where a Republican governor passed an infamous “bathroom bill” barring transgender residents from using the public restrooms of their choice, offers a frightening look at what life under unified GOP control could look like. (Following the election of a Democratic governor last year, the state repealed the law.)

“I look at North Carolina and everything that’s happened there and I say, ‘There but by the grace of God goes Virginia,’” said Atima Omara, president of the Young Democrats of America and a DNC member.

In addition, a Democratic loss at the top of the ticket would likely extinguish all hope of making major gains in the Virginia House of Delegates (no state Senate seats are on the ballot). Democrats, who recruited their largest number of House candidates in recent memory, are running in 17 GOP-held districts where Clinton won in 2016. Winning all 17 seats, though unlikely, would hand them control of the legislative chamber.

Even a narrower victory for Northam than had been hoped for could limit the Democratic pickups, said Taeb, the Northam volunteer.

If Democrats can pick up “6 to 8 seats, I would count it as a success,” she said.

But the implications of a Gillespie win extend well beyond the single four-year term to which he would be limited. During his last year in office in 2021, after the 2020 census, Gillespie would have the power to sign legislation redrawing Virginia’s congressional and state legislative districts for another decade.

And partisan gerrymandering is a Gillespie specialty. He helped oversee the GOP’s nationwide push to win control of state legislatures for the express purpose of redrawing political boundaries after the 2010 census to benefit the party. The severely gerrymandered districts that came out of that effort have handed Republicans nearly an unshakable hold on the U.S. House of Representatives and resulted in a net gain of hundreds of state legislative seats.

A Democratic governor could, by contrast, veto a Virginia redistricting plan offered by the Republicans and use the “bully pulpit” to inveigh against efforts to unduly favor the GOP, Dorsey said.

Omara of the Young Democrats of America remains “optimistic” that Virginia’s increasingly diverse demographics, disapproval of Trump and significantly stronger turnout in the primary bode well for Northam. But some people forget that Virginia is still a swing state that elected a Republican governor as recently as 2009, she added. 

“We are a good reflection of what the country looks like,” Omara said. “We are a purple state. We have to fight for every vote.”

&&&&&

+++++

What Democrats Can Learn From An Atlanta Progressive’s Underdog Mayoral Bid

2017-11-06

Former state Sen. Vincent Fort has spent his career building diverse coalitions for racial and economic justice.

ATLANTA ― The drab white-brick office space sits some 30 feet from Campbellton Road on an island of its own, with a chicken restaurant on one side and a fenced-off auto body shop on the other. When Vincent Fort arrived in town, in 1978, Campbellton Road was thriving. Mr. V’s Figure 8 disco was there, and in those days, if you were young and black, Mr. V’s was the place to be. Golden horse statues, floor-to-ceiling mirrors, that “earthquake sound.”

“You would see these commercials for Mr. V’s Figure 8 in Atlanta and you would say, ‘Damn, they got it goin’ on over there! When I go to Atlanta, I’m going to Mr. V’s Figure 8,’” Fort recalled, laughing. “That’s exactly what people did.”

Decades later, Mr. V’s is gone, and the Westgate Shopping Center that housed it, Fort said, “looks like it has fallen on very serious, hard times.”

It was at the Westgate that Fort, a longtime activist-legislator, launched his campaign for mayor a year ago. He chose the spot for a reason: He believes it represents the decline of the poor and predominantly working-class parts of Atlanta ― a decline he has made it his mission to stop.

“Campbellton Road reflects the neglect of City Hall” better than any almost any other neighborhood, he said.

We were sitting in a side room at his spare campaign headquarters a mile from the Westgate Shopping Center, on the southwest side of Atlanta. If not for the red “Fort for Atlanta mayor” placards in the windows, there would be little to inform a passerby that this is where Fort ― who mere months ago was the no. 2 Democrat in the Georgia state Senate ― is vying, with the backing of Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), for the mayoralty of a city of nearly half a million people.

An air conditioning unit above the front doorway drips on anyone walking inside. An enormous yellow “Occupy Homes” banner hangs from the wall. The office furniture consists of nothing more than several tables, some folding chairs and three black couches that Fort notes with a chuckle are pleather. The whole campaign is a lean operation. Fort does not have a campaign manager. He handles his own media requests and manages his own Twitter account.

It’s the man himself who fills the room. Fort is a mustachioed 61-year-old with a stout build and black-frame glasses held together at the bridge. He is given to impassioned, even angry arguments about policy. The oratory doesn’t soar so much as brawl. His tirades generally center on the failures of City Hall to look out for working-class people. Now, on a stretch of Campbelltown Road that had seen better days, Fort was jabbing a finger on the table, mid-exhortation.

“That’s what’s at stake here,” he said. “This is serious business, because we’ve gone from 20 percent gentrified to 70 percent gentrified at something like 5 percent a year. And if the wrong person gets elected on Nov. 7, guess what? By 2021, the end of the next administration, it could very well be impossible to revert.”


FORT FOR MAYOR
Vincent Fort, the former Democratic whip in the Georgia state Senate, is running an insurgent bid to become mayor of Atlanta.
Fort is locked in a tight race ahead of Atlanta’s nonpartisan primary on Nov. 7. Assuming none of the 10 contenders gets more than 50 percent of the vote, the top two candidates would proceed to a Dec. 5 runoff. City Councilwoman Keisha Lance Bottoms, who has the endorsement of Mayor Kasim Reed (D), leads the field with 25.4 percent of the vote, followed by City Councilwoman Mary Norwood, the most conservative candidate in the race, who has 23.4 percent support, according to the latest WSB-TV poll.

Fort is in a distant fifth place with 7.9 percent, according to the survey, with 5.6 percent of voters still undecided. (His campaign maintains that media polls that rely on landline calls undercount young voters. They say internal polling shows Fort in a competitive bid for second place.)

Fort’s run has received limited national attention, but it is difficult to overstate the implications of a hypothetical Fort upset for Democratic Party politics across the country.

In the wake of Donald Trump’s presidential election, a fierce debate has erupted within Democratic ranks about how the party should orient itself to take back power.

Many left-leaning Democrats have argued that the only path forward for the party is a brand of genuine economic populism to contrast the faux populism of the commander in chief. The answer to the disappointing performance of Hillary Clinton is more of the renegade politics of Sanders, according to these activists, who note that Sanders is the most popular politician in the country.

The trouble is that Sanders’ critics were able to paint him, often unfairly, as a class warrior with a blind spot for racial and sexual injustice.

As a result, those skeptical of a populist pivot invariably raise concerns that remaking the Democratic Party in Sanders’ image would mean downplaying the particular types of oppression experienced by black people and other marginalized groups.

Fort, a Sanders supporter who has spent his career fighting for the rights and well-being of his black constituents, offers a populist model for Democrats eager to avoid a false choice between universal progressive policies and solutions tailored to the needs of specific communities.

During his two decades in the Georgia state Senate, where he rose to the rank of Democratic whip, Fort spearheaded the passage of a landmark hate crime law and what was once the country’s strongest anti-predatory lending law. As recently as 2015, he played a lead role in a fight to ensure that $3 billion in new state transportation funding would include the participation of minority-owned businesses and workers in underserved communities.

Fort’s “sense of being civic-minded is with an eye toward first and foremost addressing the challenges and systems that lead to massive inequalities, and massive inequalities that clearly are racialized, but also, of course, intersect with class,” said Michael Leo Owens, an expert in African-American politics at Emory University.

And unlike Sanders, who sometimes had trouble convincing black voters that he understood their particular concerns, Fort has a record of winning black voters’ trust and representing their interests in the state legislature, according to Owens.

“It almost ends up sounding like Fort’s the ‘black Bernie,’” he said. “But another way to do it is to flip it around and say, ‘No, Bernie is the white Vincent Fort’ ― Vincent Fort being superior in some ways.”


DANIEL MARANS/HUFFPOST
Fort’s mayoral campaign headquarters on Campbellton Road in southwest Atlanta.
The Problem With Universal Strategies

John powell likes to put his students through a little exercise. A civil rights expert and political theorist at the University of California, Berkeley, powell (who styles his name without capital letters) asks his students with glasses to take them off and try to read a projector slide. Then he asks the students who don’t wear glasses to put on a classmate’s specs and try reading the slide. Needless to say, neither group can do it. 

The point is to show that insisting on a one-size-fits-all method for achieving a common goal ― in this case viewing a projector slide ― does not work.

“The universal goal is to see the slide,” said powell, whose work has appeared on HuffPost. “The way you do that is different.”

The same lessons apply in policymaking, according to powell.

“Universal strategies don’t work because people are not situated the same ways in terms of structures and in terms of culture,” he said.

Powell is the forefather of a school of thought he has dubbed “targeted universalism.” Targeted universalism dictates that in order to achieve universal goals ― like a dignified standard of living ― society must address the particular circumstances that shape the lives of people in specific groups. 

This puts him at odds, a bit, with some of the more energetic segments of the Democratic base. Buoyed by the candidacy of Bernie Sanders, they have rallied around bold, universal economic policies like single-payer health care, free college tuition and a trillion-dollar infrastructure program. Universal programs of this sort, their advocates would argue, are less vulnerable to political attack than targeted programs, which conservatives have used racially coded rhetoric to smear as handouts. 

For a contingent of leftists, this is a matter of first principles. People’s material conditions are the driver of historical change, they maintain, and organizing white and black working people under the banner of class solidarity is the only real route to eradicating racism. For these reasons they tend to eschew solutions that are narrowly tailored to the specific disparities in living standards experienced by marginalized communities. 

But race-blind, universalist solutions can’t address the unique challenges of marginalized communities, according to powell. His list of “structures,” or axes along which different people can be privileged or oppressed, includes race, gender, sexual orientation and immigration status. He also considers largely white communities with pervasive, multigenerational poverty, such as those in Appalachia, to be marginalized groups in need of customized policy solutions.

Universal programs “don’t address inequality and in some sense, squander resources,” powell said. “Targeted universalism can avoid some of that. Actually it can avoid a lot of it.”

Race and class in America have been intimately intertwined, and things that affect class disproportionately affect African-Americans.
Vincent Fort
Fort isn’t allergic to universalist approaches, but he is sensitive to the racialized arrangements and outcomes of American life in ways that make him unique in the Democratic Party. Consider the 2016 primary, which pitted Sanders, who was an imperfect spokesman for an intersectional social and economic justice movement, against Hillary Clinton, who seemed to see racism primarily as a matter of bad individual conduct, rather than a phenomenon embedded in the institutions that govern us. “If we broke up the big banks tomorrow — and I will, if they deserve it, if they pose a systemic risk, I will — would that end racism?” Clinton asked supporters at a February 2016 rally. “No!” the crowd shouted.

Fort, who knows about Sanders’ college-era civil disobedience work with the Congress of Racial Equality, simply never bought the argument that the Vermont senator is insufficiently attuned to the concerns of black people. Perhaps more importantly, Fort also rejects the premise of Clinton’s call-and-response line. In his view, taking on Wall Street is an essential component of the fight for racial equality.

Fort will tell you he understands “the impacts of the big banks on regular people better than anyone in the country ― other than the lawyers who work this stuff.”

“I have had to sit in rooms with people and look at the loan documents and say, ‘Ma’am, you need to get a lawyer, because you’re about to lose this house,’” he said. “So can’t anyone ― Hillary Clinton or anyone else ― tell me a damn thing about how Wall Street affects people, particularly because most of the people whose front rooms I have sat in to tell them they’re gonna lose their house have been black women.”

For Fort, the interconnected nature of the struggles for economic and racial justice has been intuitive since his upbringing in a working-class black household in New Britain, Connecticut.

“Race and class in America have been intimately intertwined, and things that affect class disproportionately affect African-Americans,” Fort said.

Powell would go further. Take the myriad ways that race can shape policy outcomes ― even when controlling for class. Class populists often argue that the primary significance of race lies with the fact that black Americans have a disproportionately high rate of poverty.

But even middle-class African-Americans are subject to disadvantages that do not afflict their white peers. Black families earning $100,000 a year or more are still four times more likely to live in poor neighborhoods, which are tied to lower-performing schools and lower social mobility opportunities for children later in life.

And black infants are more than twice as likely as white infants to die in their first year of life, regardless of the education and income levels of the women who give birth to them. 

Those racial disparities, powell emphasizes, are not because of some intrinsic property of skin color, but because of historical injustices against black Americans that have not been remedied, and in some cases continue unabated. For example, the higher rates of affluent black families in impoverished neighborhoods are a feature of racial housing segregation. This segregation persists due to the lending restrictions, or “redlining” practices and subsequent abusive lending policies that have disproportionately targeted black families of all income levels.  

“That’s inherited discrimination,” powell said.

And while the reasons for higher black infant mortality are still something of a mystery, scholars have posited that the elevated stress levels associated with ordinary discrimination and feelings of marginalization likely play a role.

As a result, a universal health insurance policy unaccompanied by targeted solutions might actually amplify racial disparities, by increasing demand for health care without also increasing the supply of health care providers in segregated black neighborhoods.

Indeed, in Massachusetts between 2004 and 2009 ― which includes the period following the late 2006 passage of a universal state health care law under then-Gov. Mitt Romney ― the rate of preventable hospital admissions went up 1.8 percent for black residents, according to a Harvard study that appears to support powell’s point. By contrast, the rate of preventable hospital admissions declined by 2.1 percent among the overall population.  

“If you take a universal strategy, because people are unevenly situated, oftentimes you reproduce the unevenness,” powell said.

A hybrid approach, one that coupled universal coverage with new dedicated health care resources for Massachusetts’ often segregated black community, might have yielded different results, powell theorized.

Powell is aware that targeted universalism is vulnerable to being interpreted as favoritism for minority groups. But, he says, that can be addressed by making it clear the targeted approach is merely a tool in the pursuit of a universal goal.

“You can focus on groups... where you actually build a common and inclusive ‘we,’” he said. “Or you can focus on groups in such a way that some groups seem like you’re just focusing on them narrowly, and other groups that are not being focused on, they’re resentful.”


DANIEL MARANS/HUFFPOST
Fort speaks with Spelman College student Eva Dickerson, 20, outside Atlanta City Hall.
Learning From The Unsanitized Martin Luther King

Fort’s first memories of activism are not of black civil rights marches, but of his father’s work with the United Auto Workers union. The elder Fort was a lathe operator who worked the night shift at a steel ball bearings plant.

“My father was very clear about how important unions were, and how important unions were for black people,” Fort said.

His father had severe arthritis, making it painful for him to walk the picket line during strikes. But he always showed up and never complained, Fort recalled.

“It inspires me to this very hour,” he said.

Yet more than any other moment in his childhood, the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King played a pivotal role in Fort’s development as a progressive organizer.

As a 12-year-old, Fort remembered watching King’s April 1968 speech in Memphis, Tennessee, on television with his mother. In the speech that would be King’s last, he reassured his fellow black Americans that even with the challenges facing the movement, he was at peace because he had “been to the mountaintop” and seen the “promised land” ― a future of freedom and justice.

Fort’s mother expressed concern that King would soon be murdered.

“I remember being vexed by that ― even the specter of danger being raised bothering me,” Fort said.

A day later, King was shot dead at the Lorraine Motel in Memphis.

The shock of King’s death never left Fort. As an adult, he moved to Atlanta to pursue graduate studies in the history of the civil rights movement, and quickly became active in efforts to improve the lives of working-class and impoverished black Atlantans through community organizing.

He was captivated not by the sanitized version of King immortalized in popular culture, but by the more radical, late-stage King whom Fort said is “often ignored or played down” by mainstream writers and politicians.  

In the last few years of his life, King became an outspoken critic of global capitalism and U.S. foreign policy, including, most notably, the Vietnam War. His vision of a multiracial movement for peace and economic justice inspired him to launch the nationwide Poor People’s Campaign to lift up impoverished people of all races. Fatefully, the initiative took King to Memphis to help striking sanitation workers.

“I have been, as an academic and an activist, interested in that scenario. Can we create a multiracial working-class movement in this country?” Fort said. “So I studied it. I organized around it, and my best efforts as an elected official have been organized around that.” 

If we could resurrect King and ask him, ‘Of these candidates, who do you think most speaks to the concerns that were on your mind at the time of your assassination?’ I suspect that his ghost would say, ‘Vincent Fort.’
Michael Leo Owens, Emory University
After moving to Atlanta in 1978, Fort completed a master’s degree in African-American history and made a living teaching at historically black colleges like Morehouse. He put down roots in the city, fathering three children, and finding a spiritual home at New Calvary Missionary Baptist Church.

But Fort could not resist the call of community organizing. He took on Bank of America for shutting down branches in predominantly black neighborhoods across the city, and joined the push to remove Confederate symbols from the Georgia state flag. By 1996, he was ready to take his activism to the state Capitol. He ran for state Senate and won.

Owens, of Emory University, says that Fort channels the same “leftist black prophetic voice” embodied by King and his deputy leader, Hosea Williams, as well as contemporary leaders like Rev. William Barber in North Carolina and Rainbow PUSH Coalition founder Jesse Jackson.

“They’re all sort of in this same clearly leftist, clearly Christian [figures] steeped in the practice and the movement of civil rights in the United States,” Owens said. “All of them would be leaning on a social gospel guiding much of their public presence, so there are these very, very strong parallels and connections among those folks.”

“If we could resurrect King and ask him, ‘Of these candidates, who do you think most speaks to the concerns that were on your mind at the time of your assassination?’” he added. “I suspect that his ghost would say, ‘Vincent Fort.’”


DANIEL MARANS/HUFFPOST
Tim Franzen (right), community outreach director for Fort’s campaign, walks a volunteer through the phone-banking process.
Targeted Universalism In Practice

In two decades as a state senator and more than a decade as an academic-cum-community organizer before that, Fort compiled a record of political accomplishments that embodied the techniques of targeted universalism ― of aiming for a universal goal with policies tailored to the particular needs of different groups.

Fort never disavowed class-based universalism. It was a staple of his worldview, rhetoric and priorities. He simply viewed targeted policies as an indispensable complement to his fight.

If Democrats “want to adopt economic populism, go for it ― but also recognize people are not situated the same and you do need things to address people who are sort of at the margins, who are different,” powell said. “And that, in a pernicious way, shouldn’t be referred to as identity politics.”

Fort’s biggest legislative accomplishments ― a law allowing enhanced sentences for hate crimes, and anti-predatory lending regulations that were the strongest in the country at the time ― are models of this approach.

Fort’s stewardship of the hate crimes law, which would pass in 2000, began, as much of his activism has, with an emotional experience that brought him in touch with the oppression a particular community faces. In this case, it was the LGBTQ community.

In February 1997, an anti-gay extremist bombed the Otherside Lounge, a lesbian bar in Atlanta, injuring five people. It was the fourth apparent terror attack in a period of seven months. All of the incidents, it would emerge, were the work of Christian right-wing terrorist Eric Robert Rudolph.

The event shook Fort, moving him to fight for the passage of a hate crimes bill creating harsher penalties for acts of violence directed at minority groups, including members of the LGBT community. 

Although Fort is a practicing Baptist, he says he never really entertained religious objections to providing gay and lesbian state residents with specific legal protections.  

In fact, Fort was an early proponent of gay rights, convincing an Atlanta city council candidate whose 1989 campaign he was running to back legalizing same-sex domestic partnerships, a goal that put the candidate at the progressive avant-garde of LGBTQ policy at the time.

Fort saw the issue of LGBT discrimination as an open-and-shut case of solidarity with groups that faced the kind of discrimination he was familiar with as a black man, according to Larry Pellegrini, a board member of Georgia Stonewall Democrats, who has worked with Fort for decades and now backs his mayoral bid.

“That’s how Vincent does everything. He sees people who need something and he understands,” said Pellegrini, who is also executive director of the Georgia Rural-Urban Summit, a state-level progressive group.

Picking up where other Democratic lawmakers had left off in previous failed attempts, Fort developed what would become the “Anti-domestic Terrorism Act” in 1999 in close coordination with the Anti-Defamation League, a group dedicated to fighting anti-Semitism and racism, which already had model legislation from successful campaigns in other states.

The bill would allow for “enhanced sentences” in cases where a judge determined “beyond a reasonable doubt” that the victim of a crime had been targeted based on their race, religion, skin color, nationality, ethnicity, gender, disability or sexual orientation.  

Fort spearheaded the bill’s passage in the state Senate in 2000, after a failed first attempt in 1999. The battle still proved far more challenging in the state House. 

In order to get it passed, House Democratic leaders took out key terms defining the categories of protected people, replacing them with a blanket description of crimes motivated by “bias or prejudice.” 

The watered-down bill nonetheless nearly died that March. A passionate speech by conservative state Rep. Dan Ponder (R) led to its revival and passage.

The law proved effective, enabling the state to seek higher penalties in several assault cases. For example, a man convicted of hitting a lesbian woman in the head at a bar in 2001 ended up doing jail time for a simple battery charge that would have previously only required probation.

Unfortunately for the bill’s proponents, however, the vaguer language adopted by the Georgia House made it vulnerable to legal challenge. Defendants argued that the measure’s definition of a hate crime was too broad to isolate crimes aimed at people because of their membership in a specific group. The Georgia Supreme Court invalidated the law in October 2004, calling it “unconstitutionally vague.”

Fort has periodically reintroduced new hate crimes bills in the state Senate, with no success thus far. Georgia is now one of just five states without a law of some kind allowing for tougher sentences on hate crimes.

Fort believes the original law’s enactment, though fleeting, was not a complete loss.

“We changed the conversation,” he said. “This idea, this discussion and debate over hate crimes, educated the community.”

Nothing’s a utopia. But Atlanta’s special.
Michael Render, aka Killer Mike
Fort’s next major legislative achievement ― the passage of the country’s toughest predatory lending law ― was to regulate a practice that itself targeted vulnerable groups. From Fort’s perspective it was as formidable a blow for the rights of his black constituents as any in his career.

In 1998, Fort attended a predatory lending hearing in Atlanta convened by then-Housing and Urban Development Secretary Andrew Cuomo. The stories, from elderly women facing foreclosure after banks had suckered them into high-interest, high-fee loans, struck a nerve with Fort.

“They were almost all black women who had been ripped off by banks and mortgage companies,” Fort said. “When I heard these stories of such great, menacing theft... I announced at that meeting that I was going to introduce a bill like the one that had been introduced in North Carolina.” (In 1999, North Carolina became the first state to pass a state-level anti-predatory lending law.)

Thus commenced a monthslong immersion in the issue. Fort learned that Wall Street banks like Bank of America had gobbled up shady subprime lenders, and that they were using these companies to market refinancing deals to working-class homeowners that provided short-term cash in exchange for hidden, exorbitant fees and the equity in their homes.

The loans trapped people in cycles of debt that frequently cost them their homes. Worse still, abusive lenders were much more likely to target black borrowers, regardless of their income levels, according to a 1998 study conducted by HUD.

“Atlanta and Decatur County were ground zero for this predatory lending, and you had lots of homes, particularly in communities of color, targeted for these loans,” said Michael Calhoun, who, as an expert at the nonprofit group Self-Help, spent several months helping Fort write the legislation.

With the riskier new loans came a dramatic surge in foreclosures that hit Atlanta particularly hard. In Atlanta, the foreclosure rate for subprime loans skyrocketed by 232 percent from 1996 to 1999, while the rate of conventional home loans rose just 7 percent over the same period, according to Federal Reserve data cited by Gary Rivlin in his 2010 book Broke, USA.

Fort was “dogged” in his organizing efforts on behalf of the legislation, according to Calhoun, who is now president of the Center for Responsible Lending.

When Fort introduced the first iteration of the law in 2001, the banking lobby was able to weaken it in committee, prompting Fort to drop the bill and start anew in the 2002 legislative session. 

With the help of then-Georgia Gov. Roy Barnes, the state’s most recent Democratic chief executive and now a top backer of Fort’s mayoral bid, Fort was able to pass a law with teeth the following year.

The 2002 legislation had two key features. It severely restricted the issuance of the types of high-fee loans designed to entrap vulnerable borrowers. And it allowed borrowers who believe they were wronged to sue anyone who had possession of the loan, rather than merely the original lender.

With the financial industry devising ever-more exotic tools to offload the risk of the bad loans onto feckless investors, the latter provision proved essential, Calhoun said.

“The Georgia law was used as a substantial model, along with other state laws, that became the [Dodd-Frank] reform law in 2010,” he said.

Had the Georgia law been in place nationwide prior to the 2008 financial crisis, Calhoun said, a lot of the worst practices “wouldn’t have happened.” 


DANIEL MARANS/HUFFPOST
Deborah Arnold (right), a Fort campaign volunteer, speaks with Shelby Porter while canvassing the mixed-income City Views high-rise.
But not only would the country fail to adopt such a law in time to avoid economic catastrophe, Georgia would gut its own reform measure. Barnes lost his re-election bid in 2002 largely due to a backlash over his successful removal of the “Southern Cross” of the Confederate battle flag from the Georgia state flag. 

The new Republican governor, Sonny Perdue, quickly moved to gut the predatory lending bill, beginning by preventing borrowers from suing beyond the original lender.

Still, Fort played a crucial role in raising awareness of the ways that predatory lending exploits all people ― and, disproportionately, black people.

“He helped lift it up as an issue,” Calhoun said. “He was one of the early people warning of the threat on these issues before people saw it for the threat for that it was.”

Fort’s fight against abusive lending also laid the seeds for his activism since then. His commitment to housing justice made him a natural critic of the rapid gentrification of Atlanta in the past decade. He has become one of the loudest opponents of measures that threaten Atlanta’s overwhelmingly black working-class and poor residents with dislocation.

Rental properties in Atlanta with rents of $750 a month or less have declined by 4.4 percent annually from 2006 to 2013, according to a 2015 analysis by Dan Immergluck, an urban planning expert then at Georgia Tech. At the same time, 95 percent of rental units built in the city between 2012 and 2014 were luxury units, according to real estate industry data cited by Immergluck.

The development of Atlanta for the benefit of high-earning young professionals, students and suburban families rediscovering the city has sparked what the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta calls an “eviction crisis” in the Greater Atlanta area as rising prices push out low- and moderate-income renters.

In Fulton County, where all but a sliver of Atlanta is located, 22 percent of renters were evicted in 2015, according to the Atlanta Fed ― twice the eviction rate of Cleveland. (The county, which has a population more than twice the size of the city, includes many suburbs north and south of Atlanta.)

Fort has made affordable housing the centerpiece of his campaign. He has proposed increasing city funding for the Affordable Housing Trust Fund that subsidizes low-income housing by as much as is “needed,” claiming he is open to an injection of $350 million or more. Unlike his rivals, Fort says he would exclusively prioritize subsidies, preservation funds and inclusionary zoning for households with annual incomes of $24,300 or less. 

As a mayoral candidate, Fort has pushed idealistic policy goals as eagerly as he did as an activist or legislator. He is open about his support for single-payer health care at the national level ― a position he claims to have held since he was a teenager. And if elected mayor, he has promised the city would provide public school graduates with a two-year community college or vocational school degree.

Michael Render ― better known as Killer Mike, one half of the rap duo Run the Jewels, and a top Sanders booster ― is backing Fort’s mayoral bid, because he sees in Fort an opportunity to elect an authentic progressive at the local level. Without bold policies like free college or free trade school to provide a ladder out of poverty, Render fears that his own success story will not be available to future generations of Atlantans.

“Nothing’s a utopia. But Atlanta’s special,” Render said. “And if we don’t preserve that special, we go the way of Detroit, we go the way of Watts, we go the way of Compton, we go the way of Harlem, and we start being a city that’s playing black from defense and we don’t have to.”

Vincent is a pragmatic intellectual. He understands the economic theories that underpin [policies], but he also understands that politics is the art of the possible.
Janice Mathis, former Rainbow PUSH vice president
For obvious reasons, Fort has had fewer opportunities to pursue ambitious legislation since Democrats lost the governorship and then the state Senate in 2003.

But when openings present themselves to exploit Republican divisions for Democratic gain, Fort has taken advantage. His work often ensures that Republican state policies address the specific needs of his working-class black constituents.

One such deal took place in 2015, when Gov. Nathan Deal (R) and Republican leadership sought to enact a gas tax that would generate $3 billion in transportation funding.

Although Georgia’s influential business community backed the tax, the legislature’s sizable contingent of ultra-conservative tea party lawmakers firmly opposed any tax hike. That meant Republican leaders needed Democratic votes to pass the measure. 

In conjunction with the Rainbow PUSH Coalition and other civil rights groups, Fort and the legislature’s black caucus insisted that the new transportation funding include clauses to ensure that minority-owned businesses would receive some portion of the contracts.

The legislature’s Democrats fell short of their goal, but succeeded in securing the creation of a state Disadvantaged Business Enterprises program aimed at aligning the new funding with past minority employment goals set by the Georgia Department of Transportation. The state DOT also committed to conducting a study of the racial disparity in the contracts it awards.

“Vincent is a pragmatic intellectual,” said Janice Mathis, a former Rainbow PUSH vice president. “He understands the economic theories that underpin [policies], but he also understands that politics is the art of the possible.”


DANIEL MARANS/HUFFPOST
From left to right, Robert Darden, Tanya Washington and Bertha Darden pose with Fort after his first televised debate. The trio is part of a group of activists resisting a city eminent domain order in the Peoplestown neighborhood.
An Uphill Battle In A Corporate Town

Fort and his campaign staff were well into the whiskey hours on the night of the first televised mayoral debate, in October, at the Georgia Tech campus. They were unwinding at Noni’s, a hip Italian restaurant in the Edgewood neighborhood. Fort’s red tie lay folded on the table as he finished the first of several glasses of Old Overholt.

This was the most relaxed he’d been all day. On stage during the debate, he seemed particularly irked at the Johnny-come-lately progressivism of his opponents, many of whom clamored to show their displeasure with gentrification despite having served on the city council during a period of mass gentrification. City Councilwoman Keisha Lance Bottoms, whom the current mayor has endorsed, promised to create “displacement-free zones” as part of her city development policy.

At the debate, Fort mocked Lance Bottoms and other competitors as faux populists who’d presided over the same policies they now derided.

“People can talk about displacement-free zones all they want,” Fort said. “But when they vote to displace people, they ought to be held accountable. What we have here is people talking about gentrification and keeping people in their homes, but the fact of the matter is they have worked to displace Atlantans.”

Fort never had any illusions about what he was up against. Atlanta’s history and its economy have shaped the politics of the region in such a way that true populism can be co-opted but never seems to prevail. Atlanta, as Mayor Kasim Reed likes to boast, has the third most Fortune 500 corporations of any U.S. city. Some of Atlanta’s companies, like Coca-Cola and Home Depot, are homegrown. Others, like Delta Air Lines, moved there before World War II.

In the Southeastern region in general, and Atlanta in particular, the strategy for attracting and keeping companies continues to be limiting government regulation of business as much as possible.

“Real estate is cheaper, taxes are lower, unions are weaker,” said Kerwin Swint, a political scientist at Kennesaw State University in the Atlanta suburb of Kennesaw. “All of those things make it a very potent business climate.”

Atlanta is known as a progressive town because it remains majority-black and solidly Democratic. Thanks to native son Martin Luther King and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference he led, Atlanta was the de facto headquarters of the civil rights movement.

The city is also an epicenter of contemporary black political power. Every mayor of Atlanta since 1973 has been black.

But rather than take on the city’s business elite and overhaul its historically laissez-faire development strategy, the new black political class that developed in Atlanta in the 1970s was by and large satisfied as long as enough black people were welcomed into the existing elite, according to Ronald Bayor, a professor of history at Georgia Tech and author of Race and the Shaping of Twentieth-Century Atlanta.

“It’s still a pro-business town,” Bayor said.

The only difference between the present era and the pre-civil rights period, he argued, is that now, “blacks and whites, the elites, work together to push business interests here, which is one of the reasons why other neighborhoods, poorer neighborhoods were neglected.”

Atlanta is what a multiracial capitalist society looks like.
Eric Robertson, Teamsters Local 728
Eric Robertson, political director of Teamsters Local 728, which has endorsed Fort, offered a similar assessment.

“Atlanta is what a multiracial capitalist society looks like,” said Robertson, who is also an active member of the Democratic Socialists of America.

The result is a series of contradictions. Atlanta regularly tops lists of the best places to be a black business owner or entrepreneur, and it has one of the largest black middle classes of any metropolitan area in the country.

At the same time, Atlanta had the highest income inequality of any U.S. city in 2015, according to a Brookings Institution study. Nearly one-quarter of city residents live in poverty. The vast majority of them are black, according to Bayor.

In 1986, The New York Times shined a light on the income disparity within the city’s black community, in a story titled “Atlanta, Mecca for Middle-Class Blacks, Also Harbors Poverty.”

“That article could have been written today,” Bayor said.

Fort diagnosed the problem succinctly himself, arguing that electing pro-business or “neoliberal” black politicians, simply to ensure black representation in the halls of power, is “becoming, increasingly, an invalid approach.”

“People are saying we don’t just need an African-American in leadership, we need someone who watches out for us,” he said.

One person saying it was Eva Dickerson, a 20-year-old student at Spelman College who plans to vote for Fort.

“All of our resources have traditionally flown into getting as many Barack Obamas as possible,” she said earlier this month while sitting on the steps of Atlanta’s City Hall, where she had attended a rally for affordable housing. “And we’re starting to realize that black faces in high places do not change the material reality of a lot of working-class black folk, of a lot of trans and queer black folk.”

To win, by Fort’s own account, he will need to pick up “some black folks and some Bernie folks.” More specifically, Fort must turn out the working-class and poor black Atlantans whose causes he has championed for decades, and the diehard young Sanders backers instinctively sympathetic to Fort’s agenda.


DANIEL MARANS/HUFFPOST
Jonathan Bo-o (left) and Matthew Golden (center) talk to a fellow student at Georgia State University about Fort’s mayoral bid.
At Noni’s, two examples of the latter group materialized just moments after Fort moved out to the patio, the band inside having gotten too loud for conversation. Jonathan Rosenberg, 30, and Nikoo Razavi, 32, had spotted Fort and wanted to say hello.

Rosenberg, wearing a backward baseball hat, blue polo shirt and khaki shorts, and Razavi, bearded and balding with black-framed glasses, were more than a bit tipsy. They are pals from their work as public defenders in low-income suburbs, and both of them were ardent Sanders supporters ― Berniecrats, as they are sometimes known.

Rosenberg had been evangelizing Fort’s candidacy to Razavi for weeks.

“He’s a huge fanboy,” Razavi said of his friend.

Fort acknowledged them with a smile ― “Thank you, man” ― and made sure they knew that Sanders had come down to stump for him. He shifted in his seat to address the guys, talking up his accomplishments, asking if they knew about his predatory lending law and the fact that he had supported single payer since he was a teenager ― “I know it’s weird,” he said with a chuckle. Then the conversation turned wonkish, and the candidate was back on the hustings, breaking down in layman’s terms his plans for affordable housing, including renovating seniors’ homes; implementing community policing and creating a civilian review board with real power; using the city contracting process to boost worker pay; and making sure big business contributes its fair share to the city.

Fort was most in his element when discussing his great political nemesis, Mayor Kasim Reed. Fort endorsed Reed when he first ran in 2009, but he has since publicly criticized the mayor for policies that he believes put Atlanta business interests above the needs of working people. Reed, for his part, has lit into Fort more than once with notable vitriol.  

“I can’t point out one specific thing that Kasim Reed did to make my family or my life better. And I think he sold that dream to me and his voters,” Razavi said.

“It ain’t worked out quite that way, has it?” Fort said.

“No, it has not,” Rosenberg replied. “Kasim Reed is a great idea. He’s the Hillary Clinton of Atlanta, to be honest with you. He represents a Democratic Party that may or may not speak to the ideals that you believe in, but will never actually act on them.”

He went on: “Kasim Reed is the stereotypical neoliberal that speaks in a language of economic equality but never actually means it.”

Rosenberg had said one of Fort’s magic words: neoliberal. Fort nodded knowingly.

“Neoliberal” has many meanings in the progressive lexicon. But it always refers to some version of a Democrat who has sold out the left. Rosenberg was simply using it to mean “inauthentic.” Part of Fort’s authenticity, surely, is that there is none of the usual tension in his politics that you find in so many Democrats, who see racial justice and economic justice as distinct and often mutually exclusive pursuits.

Fort bridges the two animating ideas of the Democratic Party. He is known among the single black moms living in the city’s Section 8 housing developments as the man who shows up with TV cameras and lawyers when they are facing eviction. He fought for a law to shield Georgia’s borrowers from abusive practices, because he knew that predatory lending is as much a tool for white supremacy as the more overt redlining and segregation that preceded it.

Meanwhile, he can bond with two young lawyers at a bar about their shared disdain for the pro-business policies of the black mayor. “Mr. Fort, I hope this isn’t inappropriate,” Razavi said, nodding to his friend, “but he’s your number one fan. Would it be OK if we got a picture with you?”

Fort smiled. “Absolutely.”


&&&&&

