+++++

Left-Wing SPLC Donations Multiply as J.P. Morgan, Clooneys Give $2.5 Million

2017-08-22

apple’s $1 million donation to the anti-conservative southern poverty law center (splc) was just the beginning.

two more groups, j.p. morgan chase bank and the clooney foundation for justice, recently announced they would pledged their own millions to that left-wing organization. the splc has labeled conservative groups as “hate” organizations and put them on its hate map. that designation prompted a shooting at one conservative organization in 2012.

apparently, the splc’s dangerous history of smearing conservative groups like the family research council (frc) and the american family association as “hate groups,” weren’t a deterrent for j.p morgan chase or george and amal clooney.

“jpmorgan chase is pledging $1 million, to be split between the southern poverty law center (splc) and the anti-defamation league (adl) to further their work in tracking, exposing and fighting hate groups and other extremist organizations across the country,” the company’s head of corporate responsibility peter scher wrote in an aug. 21, memo to staff. previously, scher was u.s. special trade ambassador under president bill clinton.

according to the memo, the financial institution will also “launch a special campaign to match two-for-one our employees' donations to a wide range of human and civil rights organizations, up to an additional $1 million” in september.

on aug. 22, george and amal clooney announced they gave $1 million to splc through the clooney foundation for justice.

“we are proud to support the southern poverty law center in its efforts to prevent violent extremism in the united states,” the couple said in a statement.

despite their liberal leanings, the clooney’s were instrumental in drawing network attention to the armenian genocide in late 2016.

twenty-first century fox ceo james murdoch also pledged $1 million to the anti-defamation league as a way of “standing up to nazis,” according to an aug. 18, story on bloomberg. murdoch is the son of republican donor rupert murdoch. so far, murdoch had not announced any donations to the splc.

&&&&&

