+++++

'Women's March' Convention Partners Boast $85M from Soros

2017-10-27

feminists were outraged when the women’s march announced a man, democratic sen. bernie sanders, would begin its october women’s convention. that was changed, but it turns out, there’s another old, white man prominently connected to convention partners: liberal billionaire george soros.

the women’s march is hosting a women’s convention in detroit, mich. from oct. 27 to oct. 29 called “reclaiming our time.” the conference aims to plug into the “power of women in leadership,” but its sponsors and partners have received more than $85 million in funding from soros.

while the event claims to work for “collective liberation” for all women regardless of religion or background, it has excluded pro-life conservative women, just as it did in january during the women’s march. with workshops on everything from abortion to anti-trump activism and only democratic political speakers, including sen. kirsten gillibrand (n.y.) and rep. maxine waters (calif.), the convention proved that conservative and pro-life women are not welcome.

the event boasts star media power with speakers like cnn commentator sally kohn and actresses rose mcgowan (charmed) and amber tamblyn (django unchained).

as with the anti-trump women’s march in january, the women’s convention is backed by numerous groups that have been lavishly funded by left-wing billionaires. for example, 16 of the women’s convention partners and sponsors received nearly $85 million from soros between 2000 and 2014. this should be no surprise since at least 100 of the women’s march partners received more than $246 million from soros.

soros-funded women’s convention sponsors included planned parenthood, moveon.org and the aclu. soros has also given more than $4 million to the natural resources defense council (nrdc), whose political action arm is also sponsoring the convention.

that doesn’t even include the half million soros’ daughter recently donated to planned parenthood votes. nor the $1.5 million soros gave to cover-up the 2015 planned parenthood scandal. leaked documents from soros’ open society foundations revealed that it helped fund the abortion giant’s “vigorous defense” against videos claiming planned parenthood sold body parts of aborted babies for profit.

nextgen america pac, run by liberal climate activist and billionaire tom steyer, is another women’s convention sponsor. steyer is currently spending millions of dollars trying to impeach president donald trump, and was also the largest individual donor in both the 2014 and 2016 elections, pouring more than $166 million straight into the pockets of liberal candidates.

steyer has made it clear he wants the “impeachment of donald trump” to be the central issue for the 2018 election, and his giving history proves he will spend millions trying to accomplish his goals.

the mega-donor started funding liberals as a way to push his radical climate change agenda, but in 2017 he branched out (including rebranding his nextgen climate pac to nextgen america) in order to advocate more liberal positions on immigration and healthcare.

&&&&&

