+++++

More Questions than Answers in Las Vegas

2017-10-16

what is going on in las vegas? the timeline of incidences leading up to the shooting keep changing – and where is the hero hotel security guard, jesus campos?
 
the next logical question would then be – are the two connected somehow?

 
earlier this week, las vegas police issued a timeline of events which stated that security guard campos was shot a full six minutes before the shooter paddock began firing on the crowd below.
 
the now famous las vegas sheriff, joe lombardo, also corrected the record of those injured. he said friday, “that the number of injuries related to the oct. 1 massacre had increased, rising to 546. of that number, he said, 45 were still hospitalized, some in critical condition,” writes the chicago tribune.
 
lombardo also confirmed that police do believe paddock shot at large aviation fuel storage tanks. igniting the tanks, which didn’t and probably couldn’t have happened, may have had a two-fold effect – furthering the carnage and more easily providing for an escape.
 
however, instead of continuing to question the motive of the shooter, many have begun to also question the police response and why the timeline of events keeps changing. the sheriff has not taken kindly to the questioning. “there is no conspiracy between the fbi, between lvmpd and the mgm,” lombardo insisted. “nobody is attempting to hide anything in reference to this investigation. the dynamics and the size of this investigation requires us to go through voluminous amounts of information in order to draw an accurate picture.”
 
i don’t doubt that there is a lot of information to digest, witnesses to interview and corroboration to confirm. but we’re talking about the 24/7 news cycle here, and lombardo has to be conscious of just throwing out soundbites to momentarily appease the press. he should know, or certainly someone should be advising him, to get the facts straight, from start to finish and then release them. in other words, stop with the press conferences.
 
instead he just keeps digging himself into a deeper hole every time he has to trot back out a correct something. who cares if the press thinks your hiding something. what’s important is getting the facts right.
 
the greater mystery is where jesus campos disappeared to – and why. he of course is the hero mandalay security guard who was shot in the leg when he approached paddocks room some six minutes prior to the slaughter.
 
but now that has also changed. instead of the six minutes, hotel officials claim  “it was no more than 40 seconds between the time campos used his walkie talkie to call for help and paddock opening fire…”

during the friday presser, lombardo said he was aware of the hotel’s claim and that he was “not in conflict with it.” if that’s the case, where did the original six minute recounting come from? there sure are a lot more questions than answers, aren’t there. want another?
 
what the crap happened to our hero, jesus campos? on thursday, just two days ago, he was slated to appear on five separate tv shows, and showed up for none. no one seems to know what happened to him. it’s bizarre.
 
abc news reporter stephanie wash tweeted a quote from campos’ union president, saying, “we were in a room & we came out & he was gone.”
 
sean hannity was also slated to speak with campos, and tweeted simply, “he cancelled.” well, he didn’t just cancel – he vanished into thin air, and nobody knows where he is. if someone does, they are not saying.
 
again – this begs the question of the ever-changing timeline and whether campos’ sudden disappearing act has anything to do with it. oddly, the only changes in the timeline revolve around campos.
 
one could say that with the noise and commotion, it would easy to confuse the timeline, yet according to the latest iteration, there was no noise or commotion until after camposwas shot. 
this is indeed odd, with one weird event after another. i certainly am not making light of this tragedy, but has anyone checked if las vegas has a grassy knoll?

&&&&&

