+++++

Dove Finds Mixing Business and Race Dangerous

2017-10-12

on april 22, 1800, thomas jefferson wrote a letter to william hamilton. within the letter was the famous quote: “i never considered a difference of opinion in politics, in religion, in philosophy, as cause for withdrawing from a friend. during the whole of the last war, which was trying enough, i never deserted a friend because he had taken an opposite side…”

 
the quote referred to jefferson’s travel to philadelphia to take the vice presidential oath of office on march 4, 1797. he said that many had come by to congratulate him – but many friends and acquaintances did not, owing only to political differences.
 
yet as bad as jefferson thought it was then, it is far worse today. these days, differences in religion and political views can get one hurt or worse. and it’s not just individuals. sports teams and businesses are finding out that it’s better to steer clear of the caustic mix of business with politics.
 
however some corporations are wading in, trying mostly to curry favor with the socially progressive left. they are attempting to capitalize on what is today thought to be trendy. but they are discovering how dangerous it can be from both sides of the political spectrum.
 
target stores took a major hit from the right when they announced their transgender bathroom and dressing room policy. and now unilever, the makers of dove products, are seeing a socially-conscious ad campaign backfire big time with leftists.
 
dove’s short-lived facebook ad promoting their women’s body wash, featured three women – a black, a white and a brown – maybe indian or middle eastern. wow – that’s nice and racially inclusive. what could have been the problem?
 
the problem was that ad showed a black woman pulling a t-shirt over her head, as one would before a shower. as she pulled the shirt over her head, the white woman appeared. the white female then did the same to reveal the brown woman. 


 
if you think this perfectly reasonable, you are obviously not part of the perpetually offended class – a small percentage of blacks who see oppression and racism in literally everything. in a harmless, non-threatening ad, they see racism, oppression, slavery, etc.
 
the uk independent writes that, “personal care brand dove has been forced to apologize after releasing a series of “racist” images that appeared to show a black woman turning white after using the soap.”
 
dove wrote on twitter: “an image we recently posted on facebook missed the mark in representing women of color thoughtfully. we deeply regret the offense it caused.”
 
well dove – you reap what you sow. this is what you get for trying to inject political correctness into your business plan. yet i’m certain they were stunned at the response. i know i am. the ad is really quite innocuous, but as happens quite often – race baiters will take a portion completely out of context and hyper-focus on just that.
and the ever-neutral washington post took to fanning the flames of racial division by writing:
“was dove saying that inside every black woman is a smiling, redheaded white woman? was dove invoking the centuries-old stereotype that black is dirty and white is pure? or that black skin can or should be cleansed away?”
not a word was said about the white woman changing into a brown female. apparently that’s not offensive.
 
anyone with an ounce of common sense can plainly see that the ad is harmless. but this is the age we live in – an age where spoiled, pampered, hyper-sensitive children can’t see past their own skin color and thus define themselves by only that. 
who are the real racists here?

&&&&&

