+++++

Actress: Trump Jr.’s Socialism Joke Is Based on ‘Extreme Privilege’ and ‘Whiteness’

2017-11-01

halloween is when kids dress up in costume and parents share cute pictures of their kids on social media. leave it to bitter liberal hollywood to ruin one child’s picture.

donald trump jr. tweeted a photo of his daughter, chloe, with the caption, “i’m going to take half of chloe’s candy tonight and give it to some kid who sat at home. it’s never to early to teach her about socialism.” socialist hollywood was quick to jump on this statement, retweeting the child’s picture and the caption with their own views. amber tamblyn, the actress who declared war on conservatives, called the picture and the caption “whiteness,” saying that “it’s beyond commentary on socialism. it’s a viewpoint only extreme privilege can afford.”

disagreeing with socialism is apparently “extreme privilege.” at least, according to the privileged, hollywood elite, exemplified in amber tamblyn.

she’s not alone. a few days ago, vogue slammed the children’s costumes as “particularly tone deaf,” and justified their criticism by assuming that trump jr.’s grandchildren couldn’t have possibly picked out their costumes, which were police and military outfits. the magazine then accused trump jr. of politicizing halloween. really? in a media environment where people were told dressing their children as moana and elsa was racist, only trump jr. was guilty of politicizing halloween?

mia farrow, j.k. rowling, chris meloni, kumail nanjiani, director adam mckay, and singer mikel jollett all retweeted the picture of the 3-year old girl holding her halloween candy and defended their beloved socialism as if their lives depended on it. judd apatow retweeted it with the caption: “we don’t need a joke. you are just an awful human being and one day god will judge you.” were you referring to the child or the father, apatow? because god also judges participating in attacking innocent children on the internet.

ricky gervais even retweeted it, twice, with his own two cents: “he’s only joking. he’d never really teach her that sharing is a good thing.” padma lakshmi’s kids apparently donated all their candy, at least, so her tweet implied: “some of us went trick or treating with a unicef box donation box.” musician steve kazee tweeted, “maybe hold off on scolding other americans.” but as someone replied to kazee, it’s ok to scold if you are steve kazee, but not donald trump jr.

the trump children and grandchildren have been targeted consistently by the left. even kathy griffin admitted that she has jokes in her new stand-up tour that target 11-year old barron trump. hollywood isn’t pro-children, which, considering its pro-abortion stance, should come as no surprise.

&&&&&

