+++++

The CFPB Wants To Take Your Freedom To Contract Away

2017-07-14

arbitration has become a critical way to avoid long, costly legal battles with shady trial lawyers who profit off the backs of consumers.  it should come as no surprise that the out-of-control consumer financial protection bureau (cfpb), run by richard cordray, a former elected official heavily supported by the trial bar, has issued a rule barring mandatory arbitration clauses for class action lawsuits. congress can repeal the rule using the congressional review act (cra) and should quickly do so.

since its creation in the 2010 dodd-frank bill, the cfpb has been rightly criticized as an unconstitutional and out-of-control federal agency specifically designed to limit congressional oversight for their actions.  a federal court recently agreed finding that the structure of the agency violated the constitution for the inability of other arms of the government to review or rebuke the bureau’s actions, as well as the near unlimited power given to cordray as the cfpb’s director.  the cfpb also lost its most critical ally, as the department of justice under attorney general jeff sessions filed a brief opposing the consumer financial protection bureau’s appeal of a ruling.

rather than work to reform the agency and bring it within constitutional bounds, the cfpb continued to party like it was 2011. this past week they issued their most controversial ruling yet, barring mandatory arbitration agreements for class action lawsuits.  headlines describing the ruling joyfully proclaimed it will “help consumers sue financial firms,” and “make it easier to sue banks.” the trial lawyers are salivating.

this is certainly not the first time the trial bar scratched mr. corday’s back.  the two have been allies since corday served as ohio’s attorney general.  the wall street journal reported in 2010 on how cordray schemed with the trial bar to allow out-of-state law firms to sue on behalf of the state pension funds.  the law firms got to court representing the state of ohio, and cordray and his allies received millions in political contributions from out-of-state plaintiff attorneys.  as the journal reported,

out-of-state plaintiffs’ law firms gave little cash directly to mr. cordray’s campaign, but in 2007 and 2008 they contributed $830,000 to the ohio democratic party candidates’ fund, which passed about $2 million to support mr. cordray.  mr. cordray then launched what he called an “aggressive” litigation strategy. six law firms so far have been retained to represent ohio pension funds in new lawsuits; five of the firms donated a total of $300,000 to the state democratic party candidates’ fund in 2008.
this new rule by the cfpb is no different. the real beneficiaries will be the class action suit specialists who make millions from suing companies while the consumers they represent walk away with pennies or a voucher.  a famous example is the bank of boston class action where attorneys pocketed nearly $9 million in fees while their “clients” their accounts credited between $2.19 and $8.76 as a result of the settlement, but also had their accounts debited with a “miscellaneous deduction” of up to $91 — to cover the costs of the settlement, i.e., plaintiffs’ and defendants’ attorneys’ fees and litigation costs.

the cfpb rule will allow the trial sharks to flood the market with such suits.  as lisa rickard of the chamber of commerce notes, “while arbitration is faster and cheaper for consumers, the bureau chose to release this rule, which will eliminate the option of arbitration for most consumers. arbitration has been common practice for decades and provides consumers, employees, and other injured parties with accessible and fair procedures for obtaining redress for claims that cannot be vindicated in court.”

it is time for congress to step up and reverse the decision.  the trump white house and congressional leaders have used the congressional review act to reverse many costly rules issued late in the obama presidency.  the time has come to dust off the cra once again and send mr. cordray and his trial lawyer friends back to the drawing board.

&&&&&

