+++++

President Trump Should Support Open Skies To Avoid Outsourcing Travel Dollars

2017-01-26

president donald j. trump is pushing to make america great again and his policies should aim to put american travelers and destinations first. a truly nationalist agenda the promotes america first policies would both make american airports better and deregulate the air travel market in a manner that stops using the power of government to allow the big three air carriers to charge exorbitant fares for flights and to treat american travelers like they are cattle.

president trump has already had a dramatic impact on the economy. the stock market is experiencing the trump bump and soaring to all-time highs. one aspect of making the nation better is to make sure that government policies don’t harm economic growth. and one way to promote a policy that puts american travel destinations and travelers first is for the trump administration to stop protecting the government protected monopolists who run the big three legacy airlines and who have been gouging american travelers for years, therefore hurting travel destinations.

air travel is a market that has the potential to create approximately 750,000 domestic jobs in the next decade. when trump was still president-elect, he moved mountains to save 1,400 carrier jobs that were scheduled to be outsourced to mexico. the numbers of jobs that could be created by having travel friendly policies would potentially create close to one million jobs and pour cash into travel destinations in the united states.

one way to create jobs, is to expand domestic airports and promote open skies agreements that were started under president george h. w. bush. the agreements established fair trade and free markets for international aviation. these agreements provide freedom from artificial limitations on routes, frequency and pricing that make it cheaper for consumers to fly and make travel destinations more attractive. they have led to american growth in visitation, manufacturing exports and much lower prices for consumers. the big three legacy carriers want to use the power of government to block out international carriers who serve to provide price competition and they oppose these agreements. president trump should resist policies that would close off competition and, in the end, hurt american airports.

when president trump talked about improving infrastructure and american airports, he complained that america was behind and the greatest airports are overseas in dubai and asia. the same can be said for airlines. did you know that you can actually take a shower and hang out at a bar on emirates airlines? the trump administration needs to cut back government and allow our airlines to compete and not be over-taxed.

sticking to open skies agreements, lowering aviation federal taxes and building up american airports would go a long way to putting american travelers first and making flying great again.

&&&&&

