+++++

“Populism” Should Not Mean Tax Increases

2017-10-12

president donald trump is hitting the road to help pressure key united states senators about the importance of reducing taxes on the american people. this week, he traveled to the keystone state to make his pitch. while traditional republicans like mitt romney had difficulty appealing to america’s middle and working class, trump was accepted while in full sales mode, making his pitch directly to the middle and working class.

speaking in harrisburg, pennsylvania, the president proclaimed that enacting his bold tax cut measure would constitute a massive pay increase for america’s workers. the president said:

“we will totally eliminate the penalty on returning future earnings back to the united states and we will impose a one-time low tax on money currently parked overseas so it can be brought back home to america, where it belongs and where it can do its job. my counsel of economic advisers estimates that this change, along with a lower tax rate, would likely give the typical american household a $4,000 pay raise.”

trump also said that a reduction in the corporate tax rate would be “like rocket fuel for our economy.” his plan as currently proposed would significantly reduce the corporate tax rate from 35%, which is one of the highest in the world, to 20%.  in addition, he would like to reduce the number of income brackets, boost the standard deduction, and simplify the tax code.  trump pledged that the benefits of the proposal would go right to the heartland of america – its middle class.

there is reason for optimism. if the republican party agrees on one thing – at least in theory – it is on taxes.  there is a consensus that taxes, particularly on corporations, is too high.  demonstrating a seriousness not seen on other issues, speaker paul ryan (r-wis) is threatening to be a “grinch” by promising to cancel christmas vacation should the proposal not be enacted by december.

there is also some reason to believe the proposal may garner some democrat support – something lacking when the gop attempted to repeal obamacare.  during a recent pitch on taxes in indiana and south dakota, trump was accompanied by vulnerable democrat senators joe donnelly (d-indiana), heidi heitkamp (d-nd) and joe manchin (d-wv). failure to support the measure would not go over-well in their deep red states.

on the other hand, the president’s relationship with some republican senators is, shall we say, alienated. sen. john mccain (r-ariz) knifed the obamacare repeal effort in the back, while sen. bob corker (r-tenn) has been in a twitter war of words with the president.

then, there is, of course, the fine details of the proposal. trump’s proposal also has run into opposition from gop members in high-tax states like new york due to his proposed elimination of the state and local tax deductions. it also seems that the president can play the class warfare game as well as most democrats. on the campaign trail, he joined with hillary clinton to denounce the so-called “carried interest” provisions of the tax code, which treasury secretary steve mnuchin has thankfully walked back a bit since.

for those unfamiliar with carried interest, it is the capital gains tax rate as applied toward partnerships. many democrats have begun to question why the rate of taxation on investment and capital is so much lower than the rate on income. some, including sen. ron wyden (d-ore.) have gone so far as to propose eliminating the difference.  that would, of course, constitute a massive tax increase as, under his proposal, the capital gains tax rate would jump to the high income tax rate.

still, rep. tom reed (r-ny), a ways and means committee member, has even suggested that those who use partnerships for compensation “may well have to pay a little more” under the gop’s tax reform proposal. this is outrageous. republicans must not let the camel’s nose under the wyden tent.

democrats are the “pay a little more” party. republicans need to look in the mirror, remember where they came from, and reject the proposals that would rob peter to pay paul.  reducing taxes for all – not playing a shell game — will create jobs, as well as increase economic opportunity and investment, to really help the middle and working class that the president has championed from day one.

&&&&&

