+++++

Trade Policy With China Should Be America First

2017-04-19
the trade policy that the united states has with china makes no sense and is inconsistent with an “america first” trade policy. while the chinese come to the united states and buy up companies and land, americans are not given the same opportunities in china. this violates the idea of reciprocity in trade agreements. china protects companies from american investors while the opposite is not true.
reciprocity should be a centerpiece of president donald trump’s trade policies. when president trump met with chinese president xi jinping last week he pressured the leader to help with north korea. trump spoke of “tremendous progress” in the relationship and reciprocity was likely one of the topics discussed.
according to a story in u.s. news & world report, china is buying its way into the u.s. economy. “since the turn of the new year, chinese suitors have either announced interest in or closed on several multibillion dollar acquisitions of american institutions, such as general electric’s appliance wing, construction manufacturer terex, starwood hotels, california-based tech company ingram micro and finance and production outfit legendary entertainment.” they are also trying to purchase the american financial services company moneygram.
chinese foreign direct investment is in the tens of billions every year and rising. yet, the contrary is not true. this is probably because of the heavy chinese government involvement in the business sector. it is a government controlled economy that does not allow foreign investment.
there is a way to stop this transaction to provide leverage to the trump administration to get american business better access to chinese markets. the committee on foreign investment in the united states (cfius) has the power to review these transactions to study for national security concerns. using the cfiuis review process to block the transaction would also serve the purpose of providing leverage to secure a better trade agreements with china.
this transaction should raise some eyebrows because this is a $880 million purchase of an american company that handles the financial information of american citizens.
according to a january 31, 2017 story written by steven davidoff solomon at the new york times:

the first test of the trump administration’s stance on chinese investment is approaching: ant financial’s $880 million acquisition of the united states payment processor moneygram.
ant financial was spun out of the chinese e-commerce colossus alibaba in 2014, and was formerly known as alipay. one way to think about ant’s business is that it is the paypal of china, the main facilitator of online payments in that country. ant financial changed its name as it expanded into other finance businesses, but its core product is still alipay, with 450 million chinese users and 58 percent of the online payment business, according to credit suisse.
the times reports that the intent of this transaction is not to help american business, but to “service the 100 million-plus chinese who travel abroad every year and use the company.” this seems to be inconsistent with an america first economic policy and will be the first true test of trump’s view on chinese investment in the united states.

&&&&&

