+++++

Mr. Sessions — Drain The Swamp; Don’t Add Adelson’s Water

2017-04-19


it is not often one can find agreement with the words written in the huffington post but it is difficult to oppose christopher grove’s argument that efforts to ban state-regulated internet gambling is “job-killing, tax-raising, and a waste of everyone’s time.”

in 2011, the department of justice (doj), based on court rulings and original intent, informed states the federal government did not have the power to prohibit them from legalizing online gaming or the sale of lottery tickets online – if it was strictly limited to their own residents. while there was no public outcry after new jersey, georgia, illinois and other states exercised their power under the tenth amendment, legalization did raise the hackles of one man – billionaire sheldon adelson. the casino owner undertook a campaign to roll back these laws – not on the state level – but on the federal level.

his allies introduced legislation that would protect his casinos from competition while spitting on the tenth amendment of the constitution. besides some congressional hearings on the subject – which were an embarrassing episode for the bill’s proponents – the legislation has gone nowhere. but a new and perhaps more dangerous threat has emerged.

during his confirmation hearings for attorney general, sen. jeff sessions responded to a question from adelson’s primary ally in congress, sen. lindsey graham, expressing disappointment at doj for their ruling and suggesting he was willing to take another look at the issue. some believe the threat is real and a ruling could come within weeks.

unilaterally pulling the plug on five years of economic development in this field would be a disaster. new jersey, which has had slow growth in the area, has turned a corner. as grove noted, in the garden state alone, 3,000 jobs have been created and $80 million in state revenue has been raised since the state legalized online gaming.

to ensure that mr. sessions realizes the impact of a potential decision, the national governors association recently dispatched a bipartisan letter to the attorney general reminding him that the states have always been the primary decision-makers on gambling legislation. “the regulation of gaming has historically been addressed by the states,” gov. terry mcauliffe and gov. brian sandoval wrote. “while individual governors have different views about offering gaming—in a variety of forms—within their own states, we agree that decisions at the federal level that affect state regulatory authority should not be made unilaterally without state input.  a strong, cooperative relationship between the states and federal government is vital to best serve the interests of all citizens.”

the promise to “drain the swamp” of washington did not contain an asterisk exemption for the biggest political contributor to the republican party. reversing course would send the wrong message and could do real economic damage. this is a matter best left to the states – just as the founding fathers envisioned.

&&&&&

