+++++

New Jobs At The DNC! (Cisgender, Straight, White Males Need Not Apply)

2017-10-31

remember back during the summer when clinton insider mark penn advised the democratic party to get out of the business of identity politics if they want to win back power in washington? somebody clearly missed that memo at the dnc. the daily wire has a bit of a scoop this week with a copy of an internal announcement from the dnc’s data services manager, madeleine leader announcing some new job openings on the committee’s data management team.

see also: “night of the long knives”: hardliners out as saudi royal family conducts purge

that probably sounds about as interesting as watching paint dry since both parties hire plenty of worker bees for such positions all the time. but it’s the “personal note” from ms. leader at the bottom of the memo which is generating the most interest. she wants party insiders to send this announcement around to interested parties so they can submit their resumes, but only to the right sort of people.

please let me know if you have any questions or concerns and feel free to forward on to your contacts. i personally would prefer that you not forward to cisgender straight white males, since they’re already in the majority.
the daily wire provides a comment from someone inside the dnc, speaking on condition of anonymity, indicating that these tactics aren’t even sitting well with their own team.

clearly the dnc is doubling down on a failed strategy that has alienated staffers and voters alike. we want to be judged based on the quality of our work, not on identity politics. how can we trust the leadership of the dnc if they don’t even trust us?
somebody clearly hasn’t learned anything from recent events. one admirable goal is to ensure that your organization practices openness, inclusion and equal opportunity. that means for any qualified candidate. but if your answer to what you view as inequality is to institute a different standard of exclusion, you’re only replacing one problem with another.

if you want to win you’ll need to build the best team possible. and that means identifying and hiring the best candidates. while it may annoy you to realize it, some of those candidates are going to wind up being men. some will be straight. some will be actual (you know… “cisgender”) men and not transgender. it’s also worth noting, as we did yesterday on the subject of eliminating sexual harassment in the workplace, that it’s patently illegal to set hiring criteria which excludes anyone from consideration based on all of these demographic pigeonholes. and unfortunately for you, that includes the dreaded patriarchy.

i never thought i’d live to see the day when i’d wind up agreeing with mark penn, but the democrats really need to get their act together. i realize that everyone wants to win the next election cycle, but at the rate the democrats are going they’ll be extinct in a generation. and a one party system would be no fun at all, or at least not for very long. that applies even if it’s your party that survives.

&&&&&

