+++++

Who Knew? Pastor Hillary’s True Desire Is To Preach, Just In Time For Her New Book

2017-08-10

op-ed views and opinions expressed are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent the views of bizpac review.

the first i heard of it was when my husband yelled from the living room, “you are not going to believe this,” and he was right. and i still don’t believe that “hillary wants to preach.” yes, that hillary who, according to the widely ridiculed piece in the atlantic by emma green, reveals hillary clinton’s “fondest ambition is teaching scripture in church.”

green’s premise is based on her interview with bill shillady about his forthcoming book of devotionals, “strong for a moment like this.” shillady is hillary clinton’s “longtime pastor” who leads the united methodist city society in new york.

stop right there. who knew clinton had a “longtime pastor”? we knew she had a yoga instructor who sent her routines that comprised some of the 33,000 deleted personal emails from her private server  —  but there was never any mention of emails with bible-based wisdom from her pastor.

one can only imagine that shillady’s version of the ten commandments is labeled the “nine suggestions,” and excludes number nine of the original ten, “thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor.” but who am i to judge how shillady shepherds his flock.

the surprising fact behind shillady’s devotional book is that hillary clinton suggested the idea based on the daily devotionals shillady sent her at the beginning of her presidential campaign in 2015.

here is my favorite paragraph in green’s outrageous puff piece that completely ignores the real-life character and political actions of hillary, the devout would-be-preacher:

strong for a moment like this suggests clinton was thinking about biblical themes throughout 2015 and 2016, as well. the title is drawn from the book of esther, which tells the story of a young woman who must stand up to corrupt political figures in order to save her people.
if clinton was “thinking about biblical themes” during her campaign it must have been about how to eviscerate policies relevant to those “themes” with the goal of generating support among the non-religious, and especially female voters.

take for example an excerpt from clinton’s speech given at the women of the world summit on april 23, 2015, just days after officially declaring her presidential ambitions on april 12. in what was interpreted and widely reported in conservative media as a declaration of war on religious americans, clinton said about abortion, “deep-seated cultural codes, religious beliefs, and structural biases have to be changed” for the sake of giving women access to “reproductive health care and safe childbirth.”

maybe shillady’s book will highlight the scripture passage he sent to hillary that day? however, green, while detailing hillary’s lifelong faith and her newly revealed longing for preaching the word of god, neglected to mention that memorable 2015 speech and the anti-religious tone it set for clinton’s entire presidential campaign.

not surprising, green writes that during the campaign, “nearly half of americans described clinton as not very or at all religious or said they didn’t know what her religion was.”  wrong!  most americas believed that the first commandment of clinton’s religious faith was to seek, win and wield power. that opinion morphs into fact after reading, “shattered, inside hillary clinton’s doomed campaign,” by jonathan allen and amie parnes. the book reveals that months of valuable staff time was spent trying to justify why hillary was running for president and what her message was besides, “it’s my turn.”

furthermore, the only time americans saw or heard about hillary attending sunday services was when she was in african-american churches firming up her base. in fact, green mentions, “her campaign declined a speaking invitation at notre dame, for example, reasoning that white catholics weren’t her target audience.” (ditto for white protestants even though key battleground rust belt states were heavy with both types of religious voters.)

but, if hillary were a daily devotional reading woman of great faith perhaps americans would have sensed that in her persona. to that end, green writes that now, “after long months of struggling to persuade americans that she is trustworthy, authentic and fundamentally moral, clinton is lifting up an intimate, closely guarded part of herself.”

yes she is, and just in time for hillary’s new book, “what happened” — her “honest” account of why she is not currently reading the bible in the oval office — scheduled for a fall release and an extensive promotional tour. coincidentally, hillary is now beefing up her political action committee, onward together, that she founded in may with the catchy slogan, “resist, insist, persist, enlist.”  maybe “onward together” secretly means “with god” and the pac money raised will be used to start a church?

which reminds me of a quote from the late andy rooney, who for decades dispensed a unique brand of wisdom at the end of each 60 minutes telecast:

religion is the last refuge of a scoundrel. patriotism is next to last.
am i too cynical about hillary’s motives? could it be that at the twilight of her long career, after losing the one title she truly worshiped, hillary is seeking to trade monetary and political power for the everlasting power of the word of god?

only the lord knows the truth that lies within hillary clinton’s heart, and he stands as the ultimate judge of her character.

&&&&&

