+++++

Fox News Debuts New Series “OBJECTified” Hosted By Harvey Levin On Sunday, Sept. 17th At 8PM/ET

2017-10-06

premiere episode to spotlight judge judy  

redstate readers might want to check out this new entertainment series from fox news channel. could this be a new direction for fox news?

new york – september 6, 2017 – fox news channel (fnc) will premiere objectified, a brand new series hosted by tmz’s harvey levin, on sunday, september 17th at 8pm/et. kicking off the season debut, the entertainment program will spotlight america’s judge, judge judy sheindlin, sharing her most prized possessions in her greenwich, connecticut home.

each week, levin will showcase an intimate interview with a high-profile newsmaker or celebrity, who will tell their life story through certain objects they have chosen to keep close over the years.  the objects become jumping points in understanding how certain experiences shaped them into who they are today.

the 10 episode series will continue in primetime on sundays, airing at 8pm/et. upcoming shows will feature: prime minister benjamin netanyahu; former california governor and hollywood star arnold schwarzenegger; businesswoman and television personality martha stewart; entertainment entrepreneur and actor tyler perry; and dallas mavericks owner and investor mark cuban, in addition to other notable guests.

objectified is produced by harvey levin productions, inc. in association with telepictures and distributed by warner bros. domestic television distribution. harvey levin and ryan regan serve as the program’s executive producers, alongside john finley, fnc’s senior vice president of development and production.

fox news channel (fnc) is a 24-hour all-encompassing news service dedicated to delivering breaking news as well as political and business news. the number one network in cable, fnc has been the most watched television news channel for more than 15 years and according to a suffolk university/usa today poll, is the most trusted television news source in the country. owned by 21st century fox, fnc is available in more than 90 million homes and dominates the cable news landscape, routinely notching the top ten programs in the genre.

&&&&&

