+++++

Here’s Why FCC’s Net Neutrality Vote Is Great

2017-11-17

al franken and the hard left are outraged at the fcc’s plans to have a net neutrality vote, but here’s why it’s actually a great idea.


here’s a tweet by now-chairman ajit pai about the fcc’s net neutrality regulations, back in 2015 when they were a secret plan.

view image on twitter
view image on twitter
 
ajit pai

@ajitpaifcc
here is president obama's 332-page plan to regulate the internet. i wish the public could see what's inside.

look at that. that’s 332 pages of government regulations on the internet, and it was illegal for pai to expose them, despite that being “the most transparent administration in history.” that, right there, is how you know it’s a complete lie, when the extreme left-wing claims that “net neutrality is just about preserving the internet” and all that nonsense.

it doesn’t take 332 pages to pass regulations that dictate the way the internet already worked, and still works. here’s what it actually does:

this was about using regulatory fiat to overturn the telecommunications act of 1996, which legislated that internet services are different from phone, telegraph, television, and other old technologies. they called this maneuver “title ii reclassification,” and for years it was held up by the extreme left as their own “nuclear option” for internet regulation. title ii of the communications act applies to 1930s-era technology, instead of the 1996 law which was meant to apply to the internet, but they declared that the internet should be regulated under the 30s law instead.

twice before the far leftists at fcc tried to impose net neutrality by regulatory fiat. the first two times they did so in a blatantly illegal way, and both times they got shut down. this third time, the one that won in courts, only won because they got away with title ii reclassification under the “chevron deference.” that’s the legal principle used in courts, to say that regulators can interpret the laws they enforce.

they wanted to regulate the internet, and they found any legal pretext they could get, to do so. al franken even admitted it: he wants to control content, websites, everything, under the principle of net neutrality, using the powers taken by the “open internet order.”

fcc will repeal that open internet order, and bring the internet back to the regulatory light touch that it grew under for 20 years. we should celebrate that.

&&&&&

