+++++

Richard Dreyfuss’ Son Says Kevin Spacey Groped Him In Same Room As His Father

2017-11-05

accusers keep coming forward to solidify kevin spacey’s status as a pedophile. harry dreyfuss is the latest to share his experience of being fondled by spacey. while every accusation has been damning, this one is particularly disturbing as dreyfuss states when he was a senior in high school, the academy award winner groped him as his father was rehearsing in the same room.

see also: “night of the long knives”: hardliners out as saudi royal family conducts purge

much like harvey weinstein, spacey’s predatory status was an open secret among hollywood actors who take a liking to lecturing every day americans on how to act. as allahpundit wrote, rosie o’donnell tweeted to spacey “we all knew about u.”
harry dreyfuss wrote in buzzfeed about being targeted by spacey right in the presence of his father. spacey was subtle enough that richard dreyfuss didn’t notice. this happened in london in 2008 while spacey was directing the elder dreyfuss in a play. harry didn’t inform his father about this until nine years later.

spacey had harry rehearse lines for the play with his father. while richard dreyfuss was distracted with studying his role, spacey took the opportunity to repeatedly touch his son. from buzzfeed:

after a few minutes, he put his hand on my thigh. finally (finally, finally) i became suspicious. it took that long because it just never occurred to me that kevin would be interested in me in the first place. he was an adult man, a hero of mine, my dad’s boss, none of which were categories on my radar for sexual interactions. besides, i thought, surely he can’t be coming on to me like this right in front of my dad. but his hand stayed there. so after a bit, i came up with what i thought was a brilliant safety tactic: i stood up and walked to the other side of the couch, and sat back down. bulletproof. but without missing a beat, kevin stood up too, and followed me. he sat just as close and immediately put his hand back on my thigh.
not feeling he could say anything about this, the teen decided to create some distance and perhaps give spacey a polite hint by moving to the other side of the couch. the younger dreyfuss even put his hands on his own thighs thinking that would prevent spacey’s hands from landing there. but, it didn’t stop spacey. the house of cards star pushed his hand between the teen’s hand and leg and then made a bold and disgusting move on the aspiring actor.

over the course of about 20 seconds, centimeter by centimeter, kevin crawled his hand from my thigh over toward my crotch. my mind went blank. suddenly, he had completed his journey and now he had all of me in his hand. i stopped reading the script and my eyes went wide. i lifted up my head and faced him. looking into his eyes, i gave the most meager shake of my head that i could manage. i was trying to warn him without alerting my dad, who still had his eyes glued to the page. i thought i was protecting everyone. i was protecting my dad’s career. i was protecting kevin, who my dad surely would have tried to punch. i was protecting myself, because i thought one day i’d want to work with this man. kevin had no reaction and kept his hand there. my eyes went back to the script and i kept reading.
harry dreyfuss called kevin spacey a “sexual predator” who knew the teen wouldn’t speak up. this is typical of predators. they seek out those who would be silent and they prey upon them.

victims can’t be blamed for waiting to speak out. they are the ones who are targeted by monsters like spacey. but, it is hard to understand why hollywood kept promoting spacey while many did know about his behavior. as john mentioned in a previous post, seth macfarlane sent up a smoke signal about spacey’s reputation as a pedophile on a 2005 episode of family guy.

&&&&&

