+++++

Shep Smith Breaks From Fox News Coverage, Tears ‘Uranium One’ Scandal To Shreds

2017-11-15

since the segment, uranium one has been mentioned over 40 times on various fox news shows.

fox news anchor shep smith broke from his network’s hyperventilating coverage of the “uranium one” pseudoscandal to debunk allegations of wrongdoings by hillary clinton.

smith, never one to blindly toe the party line, took to task president donald trump ― and, implicitly, his cable news network of choice ― over the “inaccurate” portrayal of the sale of a canadian mining company with major u.s. holdings to a russian company.

“here’s the accusation,” smith explained tuesday. “nine people involved in the deal made donations to the clinton foundation totaling more than $140 million. in exchange, secretary of state clinton approved the sale to the russians — a quid pro quo.”

it’s a claim that has dominated fox news in recent weeks after the hill published a deeply flawed report about a “russian bribery plot” involving the sale. following pressure from the president and several republican members of congress, attorney general jeff sessions announced earlier this week that the justice department would consider appointing a special counsel to review the deal as well as other matters involving clinton and other democrats.

there’s never been any evidence that clinton acted inappropriately and, as smith notes, “the clinton state department had no power to approve or veto that transaction. it could do neither.” indeed, the state department was just one of nine agencies that signed off on the deal and clinton herself wasn’t even on the committee. 

“the accusation is predicated on the charge that secretary clinton approved the sale,” smith said. “she did not. a committee of nine evaluated the sale, the president approved the sale, the nuclear regulatory commission and others had to offer permits, and none of the uranium was exported for use by the u.s. to russia. that is uranium one.”

since smith’s segment, uranium one has been mentioned over 40 times on various fox news shows.

&&&&&

