+++++

How Does Jeff Flake’s Retirement Change The Arizona Senate Race?

2017-10-24

arizona sen. jeff flake, an ardent critic of president trump, announced tuesday that he will not run for re-election in 2018. flake, a republican, was arguably the most vulnerable senator of either party who was up for re-election next year because he was almost certain to face strong challenges from both the right (in the gop primary) and the left (in the general election).

so how does flake’s exit change arizona’s 2018 senate election?

big picture: it doesn’t. arizona is likely to remain the democrats’ best opportunity to pick up a republican-held seat.1 but flake’s retirement could make that pickup more or less likely — we just don’t know which yet.

the general election between the likely democratic nominee, u.s. rep. kyrsten sinema, and whomever the republicans nominate starts as a tossup. at this time, the only notable republican running against sinema is kelli ward, a former arizona state senator who has closely aligned herself with trump. sinema led ward in an august highground public affairs survey 32 percent to 31 percent, with 38 percent of voters undecided. private polling also had sinema ahead by a small margin. for comparison, polls had sinema ahead of flake by high single digits.


so republicans are lucky flake stepped down, right? not so fast.

for one, there’s a good chance that flake would have lost to ward in the republican primary had he remained in the race; polls showed her with a healthy and growing lead.

the general election polls look close, but more than a third of voters are undecided, and sinema may build a larger lead over ward as the candidates become better known. sinema has the most moderate voting record of any democrat in the u.s. house. ward describes herself as “very conservative” and is known for making extreme remarks. for instance, shortly after arizona sen. john mccain revealed that he had brain cancer, ward announced that he should resign and that she should be considered for his replacement. (mccain beat ward in a 2016 primary.) and although arizona historically votes republican in general elections, it has been trending more purplish. trump carried the state by only 3.5 percentage points over hillary clinton.

if the gop nomination now defaults to ward, flake’s retirement could end up making a sinema victory more likely.

but it’s not yet clear that the nomination will default to ward. other, more establishment-friendly republicans may jump into the race now that flake is out. if one of these non-ward candidates wins the primary, it probably means that republicans caught a break with flake retiring. he was very unpopular with republicans, after all. and a new republican candidate may be able to hold the trump base (which flake was struggling to do) without alienating voters in the center (as ward may).

&&&&&

