+++++

Nikki Haley Punts When Asked If Trump Supports Path To Citizenship For Dreamers

2017-09-17

united nations ambassador nikki haley made an appearance on cnn's state of the union this sunday, and was asked whether or not trump supports a path to citizenship which is included in the dream act, and is supported by the likes of sen. lindsey graham, among others.

while haley expressed her sympathy for these kids, many of whom were brought to the united states when they were very young by their parents, she refused to say whether trump would support the idea of them eventually being allowed to become citizens.

bash: do you believe that dreamers should get, not just a right to stay in the u.s., but an actual path to citizenship?

haley: well, first of all, i think that we have to remember that we all feel for dreamers. we all feel for those that came here, or were brought here without their willingness, or without their understanding that this was going to happen. so we all have a heavy heart for that.

but i also think we have to remember that the united states is a country of laws and we have to always follow those laws. and i think what you're seeing is the president is trying to work with congress on what is a very difficult situation.

there is no easy answer when it comes to things like this and i think the fact that they're having the back and forth, the fact that they're talking about it i think is important and i think at the end there will be a resolution that they come together with on this as they go forward.

to be fair to haley, it's hard to say what trump's attitude towards a path to citizenship is, because 1) it's not entirely clear he understands the issue at all; 2) he's made contradictory statements, so no one really knows what he's going to do. but it does appear that at this point, no matter how he tries to cozy up to democratic congressional leaders for good press, his administration is doing a full campaign to make dreamers feel unsafe and in danger of deportation.

&&&&&

