+++++

Paul Ryan's tax cuts bill, with all the warped social engineering of his fondest dreams

2017-11-06

you know a tax cuts bill cooked up by republicans has to be a total disaster for the majority of people if house speaker paul ryan, the nation's leading sociopathic fake wonk, is this giddy about the thing.

[m]embers say their speaker, the former chairman of the ways and means panel, is a "happy warrior," exuberant as he leads his party through a tax overhaul he's been talking about since he first landed on capitol hill in the early 1990s to work for wisconsin sen. bob kasten, a republican who believed—like ryan—that tax cuts were fundamental to spurring economic growth. […]
"i think ryan's been careful not to micromanage this bill and to leave it to the committee and certainly leave it to chairman brady, but at the end of the day if somebody's got to make a call above the chairman level -- and that happens in every bill -- that's what the speaker's role is," said rep. tom cole, an oklahoma republican and ally of leadership's.

"we know who's running this show," cole added. "there's no question who the quarterback of this is and that's the speaker, but the star running back is undoubtedly the chairman."
chart showing increase in cuts for very wealthy in house gop tax cuts plan over time.
it's not enough that the bill is massively skewed to the rich, a skewing that increases over time so that by "2027 the middle fifth of americans would receive only one sixth of the benefits received by the richest one percent of americans." the poorest americans, of course, get pretty much zilch.

but the tax cuts plan isn't just a statement about who ryan wants to help, but who he wants to hurt and the really warped social engineering he's pursuing.

that's why a so-called tax bill "includes changes that would codify the rights of 'unborn children,' allow tax-exempt religious organizations to engage in political activities and impose hurdles for immigrants seeking to claim refundable tax credits." it's a paul ryan wet dream, with a big old dollop of religious extremism. it's got everything ryan could want, punishing all those people he thinks are undeserving, rewarding his version of the righteous—the economic winners.

resist. hold ryan and house republicans responsible by helping future democratic challengers with your $1.

jam the phone lines of house republicans to make sure they can't pass the tax bill. call your house member at (202) 224-3121, and tell them no on the republican tax plan that showers more breaks on the wealthy.

&&&&&

