+++++

Medicaid expansion on ballots in 2018: It's a 'no-brainer'

2017-11-08

maine and virginia sent a resounding message tuesday night about medicaid expansion: the people want it. they said so directly with a ballot proposal in maine and in the exit polling in virginia where the legislature has been the roadblock to expansion, healthcare was cited as the most important issue with 78 percent of those voters breaking for the democrats. it turns out that health care is something people actually want.

that bodes well for efforts in other states where medicaid expansion is being blocked by governors or legislatures. like idaho, where for three years running independent panels named by gov. butch otter have recommended expansion for the state's 78,000 uninsured individuals who would qualify, but where otter has refused to act. idahoans are turning to a ballot initiative for 2018, preparing to start collecting the 48,000 signatures they need.

"it seemed like a time for change," luke mayville, co-founder of reclaim idaho, a group leading the ballot initiative effort, said monday.
"we wanted to get involved in the 2018 election and medicaid expansion was a no-brainer."
it is a no-brainer. enough so that activists in utah are doing the same to cover the 120,000 uninsured there. they've submitted the initiative language in preparation for signature gathering there.

national organizations are looking to get medicaid on state ballots in more red states, including even kansas, which mirrors maine's experience. the legislature has approved expansion, only to see it vetoed by gov. sam brownback.

"we would love to put medicaid on the ballot in as many states as possible," says jonathan schleifer, executive director of the fairness project, a national nonprofit that has supported the maine initiative. […]
"a ballot initiative allows you to go around the political process and go straight to the people," says schleifer.
getting expansion on the ballots in these states could do another thing—it could discourage more repeal efforts by congressional republicans. because after tuesday's vote, they're going to be running a little bit scared.

&&&&&

