+++++

Kate Bolduan's Perfect Response To Roy Moore Apologist: 'It's Her Face, Her Voice, Her Story!'

2017-11-10

cnn's kate bolduan had the perfect response to republicans that are trying to smear the washington post over their blockbuster report on roy moore's sexual proclivities towards underage girls.

the cnn host was interviewing rep. jodey arrington (r-tx) about the moore allegations and as he tried to deflect the impact of it away from the moore and onto the washington post, he got more than he bargained from kate bolduan.

kate said, "there's not going to be a case here. i'm not asking you if he's guilty or innocent. i'm asking if he should be a united states senator?"

he refused to respond to her question and instead said the only way to find out the truth was with a "jury of their peers and have due process."

kate replied, "there's not going to be a case. there's a statute of limitations on this. do you think voters should vote for him?"

he replied, "it's going to be part of the consideration for his voters, but the fact is, he's saying -- he's denying those allegations and you got the washington post which is not exactly the pillar of unbiased journalism saying another thing, so i'm going to let this play out for the people -- "

bolduan replied, "sir, with all due respect and i'm not speaking here for the washington post, it's not the washington post saying this."

"this is a woman on the record, her face, her voice, her name, her family, saying what happened to her when she was 14 years old and 30 people also corroborating these stories as well. so it's not the washington post versus roy moore. it is a woman telling her story that she says is her truth versus roy moore," she said.

leigh corfman and wendy miller were 14 years old when they say moore engaged in unseemly practices. fourteen years old.

and they did not remain anonymous for the article.

kate followed up again, "do you think he should be a united states senator?

arrington finally answered and said, "i think that's disconcerting and if it's true i think roy moore is unfit to be running for the united states senate."


well done, kate, but he still didn't let go of that "if it's true" disclaimer, did he?

&&&&&

