+++++

Fox News Sunday: 'Repugnant' That Roy Moore Asked Permission From Parents To Date Underage Girls

2017-11-12

during fox news sunday's round table discussion, there wasn't one member who supported roy moore's election campaign to the senate after allegations surfaced that he dated underage girls when he was in his thirties.

"let's talk about roy moore," wallace said.

heritage's michael needham wanted to re-litigate the primary and launched into an attack on senate majority leader mitch mcconnell over mo brooks' attempts to acquire the vacated senate seat.

wallace got him back on track and asked, "shouldn't roy moore stepped on?"

needham replied, "if these allegations are true, he should step down."

he continued, "the washington post article is pretty compelling. when roy moore tells sean hannity--hannity did a very hard-hitting interview on friday--that he "generally" did not date teenagers when he was in his thirties, i think that roy moore is going to need to provide people more confidence that this isn't true, because the evidence is pretty overwhelming, and if not, frankly, he will have trouble being seated in the senate even if he does win the election."

wallace then recounted a bizarre exchange between moore and hannity that i highlighted friday night.

wallace said, "[moore] also said as part of his defense that he never asked girls out without asking permission from their mother, which (laughs at that preposterous remark) is a first, i have to say."

gillian turner, a fox news analyst and former wh national security staffer was disgusted by moore's comments and wallace could see it and called on her next.

turner said, "it's infuriating and that's why i was shaking my head."

wallace said, "go ahead."

she continued, "that idea is infuriating, that somehow had he asked the parents if he could go out with a 14-year-old, and they had said yes it would have been perfectly acceptable. i found that idea repugnant."

that is repugnant, and is an admission of guilt by roy moore and tantamount to a sex offense against a minor because it's so ludicrous on its face.

he's in his thirties, already has a big job in the da's office and he's asking out supposedly age-appropriate girls but needs to ask permission from their mother? in what reality or if you like, multiverse, would ever happen?



please.

more and more information is coming out that backs up the post story.

 teresa jones @tjonessrq
#roymoore as a deputy da in gadsden when roy moore was there, it was common knowledge about roy’s propensity for teenage girls. i’m appalled that these women are being skewered for the truth.#morningjoe #foxnews
7:31 am - nov 10, 2017


and as the local alabama paper points out, democratic rival doug jones also has a story about young girls in his past too...but a much, much easier one to support.

even if you don't believe the accusations, he's now in his early seventies, married, creepy and about to become alabama's next u.s. senator. there was plenty in moore's record to keep a sane person from voting for him before all this creepy stuff with young girls came out today in the washington post.

truth is, this news won't make one bit of difference with alabama voters. you're either fer 'im or agin 'im down here. regardless.

moore's base is just relieved these accusations involve girls instead of boys.

then, there's that other guy. doug jones. the democrat candidate for u.s. senate.

jones also has a history with 4 young girls: denise mcnair, carole robinson, addie mae collins and cynthia wesley. he convicted the remaining ku klux klan members who killed them.

props to peter a. shulman:

view image on twitterview image on twitter
 peter a. shulman 📚 @pashulman
doug jones and roy moore both have stories from their pasts about four young girls. they are very different kinds of stories.
12:54 pm - nov 9, 2017

&&&&&

