+++++

'I Don't Blame China': Trump Flip-Flops On China's 'Rape' Of The U.S. Economy

2017-11-09

during a joint press conference with chinese leader xi jinpin in beijing, trump said " i don't blame china" for using unfair trade practices against the u.s.

donald trump spent his entire campaign in 2016 and presidency attacking china for unfair trade practices, "raping" our economy and being a "currency manipulator," but suddenly, while standing in front of china's leader he wilted.

(transcript via whitehouse.gov.)

trump said, "as we all know, america has a huge annual trade deficit with china -- a number beyond anything what anybody would understand."

trump seems sort of worried about forced technology transfer, and the theft of intellectual property."

he continued, "both the united states and china will have a more prosperous future if we can achieve a level economic playing field. right now, unfortunately, it is a very one-sided and unfair one. but -- but i don't blame china. (applause.) after all, who can blame a country for being able to take advantage of another country for the benefit of its citizens? i give china great credit. (applause.)

trump is congratulating a foreign power for ripping off the united states of america.

and as usual, he said, "i do blame past administrations for allowing this out-of-control trade deficit to take place and to grow. we have to fix this because it just doesn't work for our great american companies, and it doesn't work for our great american workers. it is just not sustainable. i look forward to working toward that goal and to pursuing fair and lasting engagement."

and then trump broke presidential tradition:

president donald trump broke with tradition during his asia trip on thursday as he refused to take reporter questions during or after his meetings with chinese president xi jinping. the decision makes him the first president since george h.w. bush to not take questions during a visit to china in more than two decades.

i'm sure president xi will roll over now that trump has kissed his ring and bowed before him.

&&&&&

