+++++

Roy Moore Tells Hannity He Didn't 'Generally' Date Teens

2017-11-10

in a cringe-worthy interview, alabama senate candidate roy moore, when asked by sean hannity if he dated young girls said, "not generally, no."

the embattled senatorial candidate joined sean hannity on his radio show to address the damning washington post report about his teenage proclivities.

in another weird statement, he said he had no memory of these past events "or dating any girl without the permission of her mother.”

huh?

he's in his thirties, already has a big job in the da's office and he's asking out supposedly age-appropriate girls but needs to ask permission from their mother?

this wasn't 1829 or in a faraway game of thrones land called westeros.

it was 1979, for godssake.

hannity kept asking him about dating teens.

when asked about 14-year-old corfman he replied, "i don’t know ms. corfman from anybody. the allegations of sexual misconduct with her are completely false.”

he said it was forty years ago after all and he dated a lot of ladies.

his memory was a little better on gloria thacker deason and debbie wesson gibson, but not much.

he actually remembered more about the parents than the girls.

on gibson, he said, “i knew her as a friend,” who has said moore asked her on a date when she was 17, after speaking at her high school. “if we did go out on dates, then we did, but i do not remember that,” moore said.

if we did, we did, but i don't, you know?

he also denied trying to liquor up gloria thacker deason because he lived in a dry county and you know, that's the only place to get booze. right? but he did remember her as "a good girl" and again remembered the parents.

again hannity pressed him, "you do remember these girls, would it be unusual for you as a thirty-two-year-old guy to have dated a woman as young as seventeen..."

"not generally, no. if i did, i'm not going to dispute anything but i don't remember anything like that."



so occasionally he dated teens. good to know.

was this interview designed to help? it only caused more problems for roy moore.

&&&&&

