+++++

Steve King takes a break from immigrant-bashing to push abortion ban at six weeks

2017-10-27

rep. steve king has two major obsessions: immigration and abortion. maybe thinking that donald trump is doing enough on the being-horrible-to-immigrants front, this week the iowa republican has turned his attention to abortion, introducing a bill to ban abortions as soon as a heartbeat can be detected, as early as six weeks into pregnancy, a time when many women don’t yet know they’re pregnant. if this bill became law, getting an abortion would essentially require a woman to take a pregnancy test 10 minutes after her period was late and make an immediate phone call for an appointment to terminate the pregnancy. unless there were drop-in clinic appointments available so that women who took a pregnancy test an entire week later could get same-day service. apparently king wants women making hasty choices.

science lesson: week six of pregnancy is actually week four post-conception. here’s the american pregnancy association on a six-week embryo:

between 5 ½ to 6 ½ weeks, a fetal pole or even a fetal heartbeat may be detected by vaginal ultrasound.  the fetal pole is the first visible sign of a developing embryo. this pole structure actually has some curve to it with the embryo’s head at one end and what looks like a tail at the other end.

the fetal pole now allows for crown to rump measurements (crl) to be taken, so that pregnancy dating can be a bit more accurate. the fetal pole may be seen at a crown-rump length (crl) of 2-4mm, and the heartbeat may be seen as a regular flutter when the crl has reached 5mm.
just fyi. the baby has a heartbeat! yeah, and a tail. in those fruit and vegetable comparisons that pregnant women are always getting, six weeks is a lentil or a pomegranate seed.

what’s likely is not that king seriously thinks a six-week ban will be passed into law and upheld by the courts. rather, he’s trying to follow the route ohio gov. john kasich took in late 2016, using the threat of a six-week ban to make a still-unconstitutional 20-week ban seem like a reprieve—and possibly get the trump-era supreme court to reconsider the constitutionality of 20-week abortion bans.

king’s bill will get a subcommittee hearing on november 1. it will be as outrageous an assault on women’s right to control their own bodies as it is now and as it will be in 100 years.

&&&&&

