+++++

Republican establishment climbs into bed with fire-breathing bigot Roy Moore

2017-10-26

roy moore, the notoriously bigoted alabama judge and now republican senate nominee, may be running as an anti-establishment candidate who took down the establishment pick in a primary. but that doesn’t mean he and establishment republicans won’t happily hop into bed together, as long as it’s a metaphorical campaign bed. on tuesday, moore’s campaign signed a joint fundraising agreement with the republican national committee, national republican senatorial committee, and the alabama republican party. on wednesday, texas sen. john cornyn endorsed moore; cornyn is the second-ranking republican in the senate, behind majority leader mitch mcconnell.

let’s take a look at who the republican party and a member of its senate leadership are rallying behind, shall we?

roy moore has called the supreme court decision making marriage equality the law of the land “even worse in a sense” than the dred scott decision upholding slavery, and was removed from office as a judge for ordering probate judges to deny gay couples marriage licenses.

moore fought to keep segregation in the alabama state constitution—in 2004.

moore said that little children were killed in newtown “because we’ve forgotten the law of god.” it wasn’t the only comment he’s made along those lines. in fact, he thought something similar about 9/11.

moore has said that the first amendment only applies to christians. no word on where he’s getting that from the words:

congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the government for a redress of grievances.
moore once gave a speech to a white supremacist group that influenced charleston shooter dylann roof.

moore not only embraced birtherism, he kept on embracing it until at least 2016.

this is who has the endorsement of the second-ranking senate republican and who the rnc, nrsc, and alabama republican party are fundraising with.

&&&&&

