+++++

Newt Gingrich has pro-Trump book coming out. My anti-Trump book is better. Pre-order it today!

2017-06-02

on june 13, newt gingrich will release his new shit book about donald trump:

understanding trump explains the president's actions so far and lays out a vision for what americans can do to help make president trump's agenda a success.
cover page of the resistance handbook: 45 ways to fight donald trump
my new book, out june 20, but you can pre-order today!
a week later on june 20, a better book will come out. co-authored with michael huttner, founder of progressnow (which played a big part in colorado’s big shift to blue), the resistance handbook: 45 ways to fight trump will come out. 

guys, i’m super proud of this book. at a time when so many of us are desperate for new ways to resist the popular-vote loser’s regime, we provide hundreds of suggestions, grouped into 45 broad categories. we talk about ways to fight against trump’s corrosive effect on our culture (bullying, sexism, racism, xenophobia), ways to fight his assault on the policies we care about (racial justice, women’s issues, worker’s rights, immigration, true religious liberties, and so on), and ways to build the electoral infrastructure we so desperately need, and should’ve already had built. we highlight good work being done by our best allies, and encourage people to lead the charge. 

already, several thousand books have been pre-ordered, and adding to that tally will improve its chances of getting on bestseller lists. this isn’t important for financial reasons. the book is priced so low ($12.99 for paperback, and even cheaper on amazon) that royalties will be negligible. it’s important because 1) we want this resource in the hands of as many activists around the country as possible, and 2) because i don’t want gingrich’s stupid book on bestseller lists without there being a resistance-themed book to counterbalance it. and the more people who see this book exists (and the bestseller lists do that), the more people will buy it and share it, and the more people will do great activism, and the closer we’ll be to our idealized liberal utopia. 

one more thing: the mother of all bestseller lists is the ny times, and it’s not a real bestseller list. someone could sell 1 million books, only on the amazon, and it wouldn’t make the list. that’s why the bible isn’t on the list. or the dozens of high-selling religious books that flood the market. it’s “curated,” and largely based on sales at independent bookstores. 

so if you want to order it on amazon, that’s great! but it would be extra helpful if you called your local bookstore and placed an order with them. 

sound like a plan? so you can either:

pre-order on amazon
pre-order at your favorite bookstore 
i’ll share more info on the book in the two weeks leading up to release. it’s good. pre-order! and fuck newt gingrich.

&&&&&

