+++++

Free college: Great policy, terrible politics

2017-09-13

free college makes sense almost any way you slice it. at the individual level, a college degree provides dramatically higher earning potential potential—56 percent higher than that of a high school grad, a record high. at the national level, an educated workforce guarantees global competitiveness in a cutthroat economic environment. thus, it makes little sense to saddle grads with unsustainable debt. 

however, the logical solution—free college—is terrible politics. 

many of the proposals democrats are pushing fall flat in focus groups and polling.

the call for free college tuition fosters both resentment at ivory tower elitism and regret from people who have degrees but are now buried under debt. many voters see “free” as a lie — either they’ll end up paying for tuition some other way, or worse, they’ll be paying the tuition of someone else who’ll be getting a degree for free.
we know how conservatives are systematically undermining public sentiment against education, with 58 percent of republicans now saying that colleges and universities have a negative effect on the country. so already, you have a built-in constituency hostile to the idea. in their mind, more people in college just means more liberals. 

but it goes beyond that. what about everyone who is already saddled with student debt? that breeds resentment. what about those who spent decades paying off their student debt? more resentment. what about those who have shitty jobs who think they’re paying for someone else to make more money than them? loads of resentment!

and then there’s the issue of race and class: wealthy whites from good schools would get free college, and have zero problem affording room-and-board fees. college remains unattainable for many living in disadvantaged communities because of shitty primary and secondary schools, and even free college would be a stretch for many who could not afford living expenses.

in fact, there is one constituency that is drawn to the idea of free college: current and future college goers, aka “young people.” and which is the age demographic least likely to vote? young people. it’s not even fucking close. 

chart showing voting rates by age.
and while we may like it, the white working-class voters that would supposedly be attracted to free college for their kids hate it. 

“when democrats go and talk to working-class voters, we think talking to them about how we can help their children go to college, they have a better life, is great,” said ali lapp, executive director of house majority pac, which supports democratic house candidates. “they are not interested. … it’s a problem when you have a growing bloc in the electorate think that college is not good, and they actually disdain folks that go to college.”
the solution? getting more young people to vote would be a start (if their numbers swamp those of the anti-free-college contingent, it’s a no-brainer—political spoils go to those who participate). and yes, of course it’s a chicken-or-egg problem: young voters won’t vote unless democrats support it, but democrats can’t support it (and win) if young people don’t vote. given historical trends, however, dems could be forgiven if they focus on more fertile ground than hoping for a youth electoral wave that has never materialized. 

a more immediately realistic step would be to broaden the conversation so it includes debt relief for people already saddled by education debt. include job training programs beyond college, since those all matter and are important (and there are other paths to a successful, fulfilling, and lucrative life that don’t include college).

definitely make sure wall street pays for it (financial transaction tax!), so people don’t feel that they’re on the hook for paying for someone else’s career advancement. 

this is a rare current issue in which democrats don’t have mass public support. to make it happen will require broadening the scope of the idea, and getting those most directly impacted to actually spur progress by participating at the ballot box.

&&&&&

