+++++

'Trumpism without Trump' went down in flames last night

2017-11-08

former trump adviser and space blancmange with mysterious intentions steve bannon has based his website (breitbart) and "political" career around the premise that america is, at heart, a collection of dim-witted white racists who have no particular morals, ethics, ideology, or agenda other than protecting themselves from the hated other. who the ”other” is varies by circumstance and opportunity, but is generally understood to be the same targets as similar far-right xenophobic campaigns across the world and across history: immigrants, minorities, sexual "deviants," and perceived religious enemies.

the goal is overt suppression of these groups, and if that requires either remaking the state itself or running roughshod over the same supposed principles and beliefs that were supposedly sacred the week before, then the self-described "nationalists" will do so with gusto and with boldly worded posters and newly invented, fact-averse "news" sources that will tell you what the new beliefs of the moment are on any given morning, so you don't have to go looking for them yourself.

he's right, of course. there are many, many dim-witted, amoral white racists who get all a-sweaty over the dream of a fascist paradise in which the other are given their what-for and greasy manchildren of no particular talent rule over the land by force of law. but they are not the majority, and in yesterday's elections, across a great many states both red and blue and in a great number of races both large and small, a greater portion of america rose up to kick that would-be idea of a new, more hateful america square in its ass.

why? ah, the great golden egg of punditry.

you cannot claim it was not because of donald trump. you cannot suppose that it had nothing to do with the murder of churchgoers in a small-town texas church, not long after the las vegas strip murder of dozens of concertgoers. you cannot brush away the sight of torch-wielding white racists marching to declare a new public movement against the non-whites and the non-christians peering out their windows at the crowd, or the casual, seemingly impulsive murder that resulted.

you cannot suppose that the near-sneering response by dozens of supposed leaders called upon to act on these things had no impact.

no matter how contemptuous americans are of the process by which our national laws get made, you cannot suppose that a year of congressional battles to strip health insurance from people who, in polling, are quite certain they do not want it stripped, and who have family members themselves who have benefited from the things their leaders now want to discard—you cannot assume that voters ignored that in the voting booths.

a year ago, voters who had lost their faith in politics voted for a crude-minded, hateful, blustering showman they had seen on television because he smugly assured them he could fix it all. perhaps they believed him, or perhaps they intended their votes as an act of simple arson: if the current system is not working, then to hell with the current system.

but he didn't fix it all. he didn't do anything. he showed up on the job as nothing more than a blustering showman, and he yelled and he shouted and he went golfing at his own resorts and not a single damn thing changed. he shouted hateful things, and some people liked that. he shouted hateful things, and some people didn't but were fine with it, if it was going to make their lives better. but he didn't. he just kept shouting, and republicans came to take their health insurance, and nobody did anything about the drugs or the jobs, and people in klan robes started marching down the streets.

there will always be true believers. even today, we are still being treated to lavish profiles of small-town true believers who don't care if he keeps his promises and who learn from their churches that obama is probably the antichrist. there will be always be people like that—stupid people, dumb as posts, gullible idiots who will believe whatever their favorite channels tell them. they will be interviewed by earnest reporters as salt of the earth types in articles that go to great pains to avoid addressing the obvious ignorance, gullibility, and dim-wittedness of the subjects and, nine times out of 10, dodge the racism entirely.

but a large number of the people who voted for trump one year ago didn't show up this time around.

and a much larger number of people, people who may have voted for the arsonist last november or who may not have, took a look at how their nation had changed since the last time they had gone to the polls and, indisputably, said enough of that.

republican ed gillespie ran a racist campaign with racist flyers, racist messages, and racist advertisements. on tuesday, he and his entire party were disemboweled by the voters. they didn't just lose: they were gutted.

similar racist campaigns in other states were similarly rebuffed. anti-immigrant spite, in particular, seems less effective than trump and those who have wrapped themselves around him had supposed.

nor the misogyny. nor transphobia.

in the wake of the election of a garbage fire of a man to the presidency, the republican party could surmise only one lesson: be more like the garbage fire. embrace the garbage fire. be sexist, because sexism was "in" now. be frothingly anti-immigrant, because that is what the garbage fire did. lie flagrantly, and often, because that is what he does.

it didn't work. you can take whatever lesson you want from that, but we had an election yesterday. and it didn't work.

&&&&&

