+++++

Trump: Japanese Prime Minister Abe will shoot North Korean missiles 'out of the sky'

2017-11-06

president flaming toxic garbage fire continues to be insane on the soil of other countries, rather than just hoarding his staggering stupidity for dispensing on the home crowd. his current focus is on getting japan to fight north korea without the u.s. having to get its hands dirty, or it may just be that donald has his eye on the military's salesman of the month trophy.

in his first stop of an extended trip in asia, trump stood with japanese prime minister shinzo abe at a news conference and suggested the united states will arm japan, much as the united states has done with allies in the middle east like saudi arabia. he did not deny reports that he has expressed frustration that japan did not shoot down a ballistic missile north korea recently fired over its territory.
“he will shoot ’em out of the sky when he completes the purchase of lots of additional military equipment from the united states,” trump said of abe. “he will easily shoot them out of the sky.”
he sounds like a door-to-door vacuum cleaner salesman. have you got a bad case of the missiles, my new best friend? what you need here is mah new and improved q-36 explosive space modulator-slash-missile-cleaner-upper. guaranteed to clean up missiles or your money back, asterisk, no money back."

in fact, his motive appears to be entirely sales-related.

“the prime minister of japan is going to be purchasing massive amounts of military equipment, as he should.”
“it’s a lot of jobs for us and a lot of safety for japan,” the president added.
he seems rather cavalier about the whole question of whether north korea and japan should get themselves in a possibly-profitable-for-weapons-manufacturers-until-everything-quickly-goes-straight-to-hell shooting war, and japan’s own constitution prohibits it from initiating hostile actions against another nation, but that is donald trump. the man lives in the moment, and in this particular moment the commercials on fox news are telling him he needs to sell japan some catheters, some gold coins, and the services of one or more of america's top military equipment manufacturers. whichever.

&&&&&

