+++++

Trump bodyguard admits Trump was offered 'five women' during Moscow trip

2017-11-09

by far the most salacious bit of gossip in the "steele dossier," a collection of unverified reports about donald trump's myriad ties to russian businessmen and government, is the accusation that trump, in moscow, hired a group of prostitutes to his room to urinate on the bed that he had been told president barack obama had once slept in—and that russian intelligence services had tape of this happening.

we do not know if the supposed "pee tape" is real. trump's trusted top lieutenant, of course, insists it is not—while admitting that the offer was made.

after a business meeting before the miss universe pageant in 2013, a russian participant offered to "send five women" to donald trump's hotel room in moscow, his longtime bodyguard told congress this week, according to three sources who were present for the interview. [...]
that night, two sources said, schiller said he discussed the conversation with trump as trump was walking back to his hotel room, and schiller said the two men laughed about it as trump went to bed alone. schiller testified that he stood outside trump's hotel room for a time and then went to bed.
this version of events acknowledges that indeed, a russian "businessman" offered up an assortment of prostitutes for trump, during his moscow trip, but insists that noted womanizer, pervert, sexual assaulter, general crook and forever-lying-about-everything donald trump turned down the offer because of course he would never do such things.

hmm. this feels like a version of events that, like donald junior's multiple interpretations of his trump tower meeting with a russian delegation who just happened to be in town because reasons, will likely be revised in future tellings. the people around trump tend to do that quite a bit.

but it's interesting that schiller is admitting that an event very much like what was described in the steele documents did indeed take place. can’t wait to hear more about that.

&&&&&

