+++++

NBC: Mueller has enough evidence to indict ex-Trump adviser Michael Flynn

2017-11-05

nbc claims to have confirmed what most observers have long suspected: the mueller probe of russian espionage during the 2016 elections and potential campaign collusion has "enough evidence" now to bring charges against trump national security adviser michael flynn.

federal investigators have gathered enough evidence to bring charges in their investigation of president donald trump's former national security adviser and his son as part of the probe into russia's intervention in the 2016 election, according to multiple sources familiar with the investigation.
michael t. flynn, who was fired after just 24 days on the job, was one of the first trump associates to come under scrutiny in the federal probe now led by special counsel robert mueller into possible collusion between moscow and the trump campaign.
also in the crosshairs: flynn's conspiracy-peddling idiot son, who "could be indicted separately or at the same time as his father, according to three sources familiar with the investigation."

a flynn indictment, if and when it comes, would escalate the political chaos in the trump white house tenfold. flynn was the adviser who trump asked his then-fbi director james comey to stop investigating, shortly before trump fired comey; those actions may themselves represent an illegal attempt by trump to obstruct justice.

given the actions trump has already taken to protect flynn—for, one presumes, reasons pertaining more to trump's welfare than flynn's—many speculate that trump would respond to a flynn indictment by issuing a blanket, preemptive pardon of his ex-adviser.

for all these reasons and others, it's not clear whether special counsel robert mueller and his team will be eager to indict flynn anytime soon, or will delay that indictment until other portions of the investigation have been further pursued. the team may choose to indict flynn soon, forcing a trump response that may further incriminate the white house itself, or may focus on other targets, keeping flynn's fate on hold.

but if nbc's sources are to be believed, a flynn indictment—or several—is in the works. now we're just waiting to see when that shoe will drop.

&&&&&

