+++++

Socialism is Never Cool

2017-11-05

Socialism never works. Look at a country like Brazil. Brazilian journalist Felipe Moura Brasil explained all about the rise and fall of his country in a segment at Pragar-U online.

 
In the early 2000s Brazil was a burgeoning capitalist nation. Inflation, something that plaques all socialist paradises was drastically reduced and the government had decided to give up or at least pare down its hold over many “state-run” companies. They were moving toward a free market – toward capitalism. Things were looking pretty good for Brazil.
 
In 2006 Brazil became one the famous BRIC nations, and American and other private investors poured their investment dollars into Brazil, looking to get in on this new free-market boom. BRIC was a group of four “emerging market” nations ripe for private investment. BRIC stands for Brazil, Russia, India, China.
 
But they made one big mistake. You see, in a truly free society, while most succeed, some will be left behind. It’s just the way it is and has always been. Not everyone has equal talents, nor is everyone equally industrious. Politicians love to focus on these free-market inequities. They prey on the guilt of the more industrious and convince the rest that through a transfer of wealth, all can share in the bounty. Sound familiar. Are you “Feelin the Bern?”
 
Due to this successful sales pitch, the people of Brazil elected a socialist as president. His name was Lula Da Silva. He wasn’t just any socialist. He was a cool socialist. You know – a cool socialist – like Bernie Sanders. Lula made the younger set in Brazil “feel the Bern.” Socialism was cool. It was all about social and economic justice man. Lula, like Bernie, was a good salesman. He could sell socialism.
 
Socialism worked for a while in Brazil. When enacted, it always works well for a while. Then reality catches up. It can take 5, 10, 15 years or more, but it always catches up. As Margaret Thatcher said, “The problem with socialism is that you eventually run out of other people’s money.”
 
Things went from bad to worse as Brazilians compounded their problems by electing an even more corrupt socialist, Dilma Rousseff.
 
Felipe explains how things went from bad to worse, as the government, to achieve social and economic justice, spent massively on government “stimulus” programs. He says they increased the minimum wage so that workers could have a “living wage.” They also increased “investment in the future.” This was code for massive hiring of government workers, which invariably ends up as just nepotistic hiring, as well as payback for cronies.
 
Does any of this sound familiar? It should.
 
Brazil’s rise and fall was relatively rapid. Their economy is now a disaster. Not Venezuela bad, but headed in that direction.
 
Now one could argue that America could never fall into this trap. After all – we right wing wackos have been complaining about this very thing for decades, and we’re still chugging along – relatively free.
 
This is both true and not. Brazil and the United States are coming to socialism from two very different places along the timeline. America waded into the idea of socialism from a place much closer to pure capitalism – no big government – no entitlements, and a fraction of the bureaucracy. Not to mention the differing sizes of our economies. The U.S. is the largest economy on Earth. Brazil is much smaller. It will take our ship much longer to turn around.
 
Progressivism in America didn’t and couldn’t take hold until the last of our Nations founders died off. Just like the original rise of the Progressives in the U.S., socialism can’t truly take hold until we Constitutionalists are culled from society.
 
But as we bite the dust, we will be replaced with a generation of millennials much more amenable to socialism.
 
“According to a newly released survey conducted to assess American attitudes toward socialism, nearly half of American millennials said they would rather live in a socialist country than a capitalist one. Some even said they would prefer to live in a communist country,” writes the Blaze.
 
And the percentage seems to grow every year. This is sad fact, but a fact all the same. But one can’t blame millennials as much as the education that was provided them. They haven’t been taught that as bad as socialism is, it invariably gives way to something far worse – communism. Socialism has always been a mere layover toward the final destination of communism – which has been responsible for snuffing out well over 100 million lives worldwide, and causing misery to untold billions. 
However attractive these political hucksters make it sound – socialism is not now and will never be cool.

&&&&&

+++++

What Good is a Dialogue?

2017-10-31

How many times have we heard this repeated, by politicians, pundits, activists, etc.?
 
“We need to have a dialogue…” – or “we need to have a national discussion…” It’s repeated incessantly from those on the left and the right, in an effort to score cheap political points.

 
“We need to have a discussion about racism.” “We need a real dialogue about gun control” – as opposed to a fake dialogue. “We need an honest immigration debate.”
 
These are easy throw-away soundbites. They roll off the tongue, dripping with false empathy.
 
Yet time after time, we see the irony played out, when someone on the right is willing to put themselves out there and do just that, only to have radicals on the left attempt to shut him or her down.
 
It happened again just last week, in where else – California. This time anarchists took a break from Berkeley, and assembled at the University of California at Los Angeles. And in the irony of all ironies, they shut down a panel discussion on…wait for it… “civil discourse.” Yes – the “lets have a dialogue” crowd was shut down for trying to “have a dialogue.”
 
Yet much to the surprise of I’m sure many, Uncle Joe, Joe Biden, had an unusually cogent moment – taking a break from putting his foot in his mouth.
 
Last week, he and John Kasich took the stage at University of Delaware. Biden admirably defended the First Amendment and everyone’s right to speech. He explained that, freedom of speech is “one of the defining features of who we are.” He added: “We hurt ourselves badly when we don’t allow the speech to take place,” the former vice president continued. “Now, speech can move to the point of incitement…But the truth of the matter is, the incitement that occurs before a person even speaks—that falls on those who are engaged in that violence. Not on the speaker.” Well said Uncle Joe.
 
However, most on the left are not so reasoned or reasonable. William Lacy Clay, Jr. said, “It’s an issue that we need to have a national discussion about, the militarization of local police forces, and then when they are used to quell peaceful demonstration. Then we have a problem, and especially around this entire case of the murder of Michael Brown at the hands of a Ferguson police officer.”

And who is he? William Lacy Clay Jr., is a black activist who doubles as a Missouri Congressman – a man who sees racism is his morning bowl of cereal because the milk is white. He is typical of why “national discussions” are worthless.
 
On gun control, Tom Brokaw said in 2016 that, “We don’t have any dialogue going in America about these mass-shootings that have occurred…” Translation: more gun control – end of dialogue.
 
The problem with today’s left is they want it both ways. They claim to want to have “dialogues” regarding everything that bothers them, but of course it’s the exact opposite – and we on the right know it, or at least should by now. No one can have it both ways for long – not even leftists.
 
You can’t rid society of some guns without eventually confiscating them all. And when all the guns are gone they will move on to the next “threatening” item.
 
You can’t end “hate speech” without eventually ending all free speech. And you certainly can’t “end” racism and bigotry without ending all human life on this planet.
 
I’m not saying we shouldn’t discuss these various topics, as uncomfortable as some may be. I’m saying we should do so on a personal level, separated from the hive mentality, where everyone, through peer pressure, is expected to think and act as one. Nothing good will ever come from a mob. Nor will anything ever be accomplished by listening to politicians, pundits and talking heads who have something to gain by spouting their nonsense on a national stage.
 
Human beings are individuals, and as individuals, no two of us look exactly the same, act the same, think the same, or express ourselves in the same manner. 
As daunting and time consuming as it sounds – individual hearts and minds can only be changed one at a time. They cannot be changed by the force of a mob, legislation, or some ethereal “national dialogue.”

&&&&&

+++++

Bernie Continues to Bash the Rich

2017-10-26

Politics is the art of currying favor with voters to secure an election. More often than not it is currying favor to secure reelection.

 
How do politicians’, particularly leftists, best curry favor? They do so by means of give-aways – or at least the promise of give-aways. This is the modern leftist politicians’ job – to makes promises to give voters free stuff. And it’s why so many incumbent politicians get reelected.
 
Incumbents are already on the inside. A challenger is on the outside looking in. They can only make promises, while the incumbent can remind voters of the free stuff they are already getting – and if they want even more, they should reelect the incumbent. This puts the challenger at a decided disadvantage.
 
Democrats are masters of the art of the “promised” give-away. But for them and those who actually believe their rhetoric, it is not just about giving away stuff, but promising to take other peoples’ stuff by force of government and giving it to their voters.
 
The evil rich are their favorite target, and we saw this on display during the Cruz/Sanders tax debate the other night on CNN. All night it was Sanders vs. the rich, with an injection of reality and reason from Ted.
 
And no where was this “us vs. them” more apparent than during the debate over the estate tax, colloquially known as the death tax.
 
Sanders took great offense when Cruz called it the death tax. He felt compelled to correct Ted. Bernie interrupted Cruz right off of the bat to remind viewers that it is called the “estate tax – they call it the death tax.” Ted said, no – in fact it is a death tax because, “it kicks in when you die.”
 
Cruz correctly pointed out that it isn’t the mega-rich who get hurt by the 40% death tax. In fact it is the small business person, like farmers and ranchers, who are often crushed by this tax burden. These are the citizens who wish only to pass on the fruits of their life long labors to their families. They are often just barely getting by doing what the love, but to Washington they appear rich, because of the land they own. The only way to pay the massive death tax is to sell off the land, which in turns ends the business.
 
This was like water off a ducks back to Bernie. He only wished to concentrate on billionaires like the Koch brothers. Ah yes – the evil Koch brothers – the whipping boys of the left. It’s interesting that if the Kochs were democrat billionaires, like Tom Steyer, Michael Bloomberg, George Soros, Warren Buffett, et al, not a word would be said. And save for Cruz bringing attention to them, they would not have been mentioned.
 
Sanders said that it’s just not fair that republicans wish to kill the estate tax to benefit the Kochs.
 
Yet Cruz was quick to point out that the super-rich don’t and won’t pay the death tax. They have armies of lawyers and lobbyists who make sure of this. Freddie the farmer and Ronnie the rancher don’t.
 
It’s why we never hear these billionaires complaining about the estate tax, or frankly any tax. In fact it’s quite the opposite. Many of these leftist billionaires claim they wish to be taxed more. They make these claims for two reasons. First, they know, because of their crony government connections, they’ll never have to pony up. And second, the mere public proclamation keeps the riotous hoards from storming their castle walls. They are effectively inoculated from criticism.
 
The common Sanders theme throughout the debate was to punish the rich for the sake of the sainted poor and of course, “working families.” Bernie knows that he must continue to bash the rich to curry favor with democrat voters.
 
It’s a pillar of leftist progressivism. The wealthy are essentially independent and naturally don’t need government assistance of any kind. Therefore the leftist politician is rendered meaningless. This is the sole reason why democrats treat the wealthy with such disdain and paint them as being inherently evil.
 
As stated, a politicians’ job is to give away stuff to secure reelection. If leftist political hacks have nothing wealthy people need, what good are they?

&&&&&

+++++

Bipartisan ObamaCare Fix is Dead – but not for Long

2017-11-23

It’s as we predicted. The Republican stance regarding ObamaCare went from 7 years of clean, full repeal bills, to repeal and replace, to no repeal – just fix, to now – no repeal, no fix, just extend. The Republicans, at least some of them, are as predictable as Sunup.

 
And just as predictable, republican Senator Lamar Alexander and democrat Senator Patty Murray, apparent authors of the Obamacare stabilization bill, are being congratulated on their “bipartisan” effort.
 
But why? Bipartisanship is held in such high regard, yet I can’t name a single piece of “bipartisan” legislation which has been anything but damaging to the country.
 
President Trump congratulated Alexander on his hard work, and has subsequently been for and against the bill. As of yesterday afternoon, both he and Speaker Paul Ryan finally came out against it. Trump says he does not want to bail out insurance companies, which is a key part of the “bipartisan” effort.
 
But we conservatives have been preaching for years that what is considered “bipartisan” in Washington is nothing more than code for doing the democrat’s bidding. It’s become synonymous with weak republicans willing to cross the aisle to give those who still control the government virtually anything the wish. Bipartisanship means the right compromises and the left does not. Check that. Bipartisanship means we are on the right are forced into compromise by means of our weak and feckless leaders.
 
I personally can’t blame the left for pushing their agenda. It’s why they are there. They want single payer, fully socialized health care. And frankly they should be applauded for sticking to their guns – not willing to give an inch. They understand the only path to eventual single payer is through continuation of ObamaCare. Any shift, no matter how minor, back toward a market driven system, will make it that much harder to establish single payer.
 
Luckily for the dems, they can continue to count on republican establishment hacks, like Lamar Alexander, who just don’t seem to care. They are just politicians – not weighed down by pesky Constitutional and conservative ideology. I suppose they sleep easier without it.
 
Of course the disingenuous swine, Chuck Schumer, had to weigh in. “This president keeps zigging and zagging so it’s impossible to govern,” he said on the Senate floor. “You cannot govern a country, you cannot make America great again if you don’t know what’s in the bills and don’t have a consistent policy about them.”
 
Well Chucky – I don’t care if Trump zigs and zags, as long as he eventually makes the right decision.
And if I may make an unrelated observation – isn’t it interesting that the bill intends to inject upwards of $30 billion to “stabilize” insurance markets. Somehow they can come up with $30 billion to bail out ObamaCare, but we can’t afford to begin funding the border wall.
 
But lest we think the Alexander-Murray bill is thankfully a dead issue, we should think again.
 
Business Insider reported yesterday that, “Statements this morning by President Trump and House Speaker Paul Ryan critical of the deal reached between Sens. Lamar Alexander and Patty Murray should not be taken as a death knell for the bill. It was always unlikely that the measure would move on its own,” said Rick Weissenstein of Cowen Washington Research Group. He added: “The more likely scenario is that Alexander-Murray gets wrapped up in what is likely to be a very large year-end measure.” 
Translation: It will be hidden in some huge year-end omnibus spending bill and passed at the eleventh hour just before Christmas when few are paying attention.

&&&&&

+++++

Mitch McConnell and Trump are Suddenly BFFs

2017-11-20

There’s something odd going on in the Republican Party. All of the sudden, Mitch McConnell appears to be leading the establishment wing of the Party toward Trump.
 
This is very strange indeed, for nary a kind, or even civil word has been said of the President lo these last several months by any the lords and ladies of the ruling class.

 
Now, the midterm elections are just over a year away. Historically the mushy moderates all start moving right like clock work, ala John McCain, attempting to convince (lie to) voters of their conservative bona fides – voters who have paid scant attention between the last election and this.
 
But it seems to be starting a bit early. And this may be due, at least in part, to republican internal polling – something of which we commoners in the general population will never be privy.
 
We hear constantly of how unpopular Trump is and that only his hardcore base is continuing to stand by him. Yet establishment Republicans are far less popular than Trump. And I’m guessing the latest batch of internal polling tells them so.
 
Then there is growing concern that Mitch’s head may be on the chopping block as Senate Majority leader. What conservative support he ever had has evaporated and no amount of sloganeering may save him. I believe he may have finally figured this out.
 
Last Wednesday, New York Magazine posted an article entitled, “McConnell Pulls Out the Stops to Smooth Path for Trump’s Judicial Nominees.”
 
In it they describe a little known Senate tradition called “blue slip – based on the century-old practice of home-state senators indicating approval or disapproval of proposed judges from their state via a blue piece of paper.” It’s not one of the Senate’s vaunted rules, that Senators like McCain place above the law, and according to NYMag, the tradition is “not all that hallowed.”
 
Prior to Patrick ‘Leaky’ Leahy and Charles Grassley, “only one Judiciary Committee chairman had followed a strict rule of letting one senator veto judicial nominees from his or her state; others gave some deference to home-state senators, but in varying degrees.”
 
McConnell is evidently ending the “blue slip” tradition. According to Mitch, “The majority — that is, Republicans — will treat a blue slip ‘as simply notification of how you’re going to vote, not as an opportunity to blackball.’”
 
This is a major shift away from the go-along to get-along Republican Senate we’ve come to know and despise. And more interesting, and telling, is that McConnell, not Judiciary Committee Chairman Grassley, is taking the lead.
 
Don’t get me wrong. I think, for whatever the reason, this is great news, but McConnell would never do something like this knowing he and his squishy brethren maintain the upper hand versus Trump.
 
To add to this, just Monday, we saw the President give a joint presser with Mitch in the White House Rose Garden. Trump described his relationship with McConnell as “better than ever.”
 
“We’ve been friends for a long time,” Trump said at a Rose Garden press conference following his meeting with McConnell, with whom he had a public falling out this summer. “We’re fighting for big tax cuts. … My relationship with this gentleman has been outstanding.” He added that they were also working on a repeal and replace proposal for early next year.
 
Then it was Mitchy’s turn at the mic. “We have the same agenda. … We talk all of the time,” said McConnell, who said their meeting also included discussions about judicial appointments and additional hurricane relief funding. “We are together totally on this agenda to move America forward.”
 
Well Land O Goshen – ain’t this something. 
These revelations don’t change my opinion of McConnell. Mitch is still a snake in the grass who will turn on the President the second his pollsters tell him it’s safe to do so. But for now, if he can faint playing nice with Trump and actually accomplish something positive, we’ll all be better for it. Then we can dump him.

&&&&&

+++++

Your Government has been Lying to You Man!

2017-10-15

We often hear the refrain of, “Your government is lying to you,” in spy movies and from conspiracy nuts.
 
Picture the seen – two people in an intense situation. They don’t know if they will make it out of the predicament they find themselves in. One appears to be in denial. The other grabs him by the collar of his jacket and shakes him, saying, “Don’t you get it? All this time your government has been lying to you man!”

 
Yet somehow in real life we “don’t get it,” and those who are attempting to uncover the lies are labeled as conspiracy theorists – or worse.
 
Of course some out there are and should be labeled as such. One certainly comes to mind – a certain Alex Jones, who seems to develop a new conspiracy hypothesis every week. But hey – even a stopped clock is right twice a day.
 
Others like Tom Fitton’s Judicial Watch and Mark Levin’s Landmark Legal Foundation are completely legit and should be trusted almost implicitly. When they say something is amiss – 99 times of 100, something is indeed amiss.
 
And once again Mr. Fitton’s organization has discovered that our government “has been lying to you man!”
 
Recall the harmless tarmac meeting between the Attorney General Loretta Lynch and Bill Clinton in late June, 2016. Most have thought this to be a dead issue. Both Lynch, also known by her alias Elizabeth Carlisle, and Clinton described the meeting as nothing but chit-chat – similar to Hillary’s 30,000 emails pertaining to yoga and recipes.
 
Well, it wasn’t just harmless chit-chat. If it were, why would then Director Comey’s FBI lie about having or not having documents. The Blaze reports that, “The FBI has ‘uncovered’ documents related to the June 2016 Arizona tarmac meeting between then-Attorney General Loretta Lynch and former President Bill Clinton, despite previously claiming documents about the rendezvous didn’t exist.”
 
Notice the accurate wording of the Blaze. It’s not that the FBI, meaning Comey, said they’re not sure or have no recollection. No – they claimed that no such documents existed. Yet it was only through a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) petition, that the feds just miraculously “found” 30 new pages pertaining to the meeting. SHAZAM!
 
This is criminal. How is it that people still put such trust in our public sector, when time and again, withheld information is only revealed by force of law, via the FOIA? Ask yourself where we would be without this safeguard. Answer: being ruled entirely by a shadow government instead of just partially. Sheesh! I sound like Alex Jones.
 
And the FBI didn’t “uncover” the documents – they were hiding them. It was only after the Justice Department released its documents, through a separate FOIA request on the meeting, that the FBI began to feel the heat. The FBI knew they would have no choice but to magically “discover” the 30 pages.
 
 “The FBI is out of control. It is stunning that the FBI ‘found’ these Clinton-Lynch tarmac records only after we caught the agency hiding them in another lawsuit,” Fitton said. Oh look – here they are. They must have mistakenly been paper clipped to the back of these other documents.
 
Imagine the time, effort and money – our money – being wasted on the ridiculous open-ended ruse of Trump colluding with Russia. All the while real criminal behavior by our “trusted” public servants goes both unchecked and uninvestigated. It’s more than disheartening. It’s downright scary.
 
I guess the follow up to this should be: when will WE get to see these 30 UNREDACTED pages?

&&&&&

+++++

More Questions than Answers in Las Vegas

2017-10-16

What is going on in Las Vegas? The timeline of incidences leading up to the shooting keep changing – and where is the hero hotel security guard, Jesus Campos?
 
The next logical question would then be – are the two connected somehow?

 
Earlier this week, Las Vegas police issued a timeline of events which stated that security guard Campos was shot a full six minutes before the shooter Paddock began firing on the crowd below.
 
The now famous Las Vegas Sheriff, Joe Lombardo, also corrected the record of those injured. He said Friday, “that the number of injuries related to the Oct. 1 massacre had increased, rising to 546. Of that number, he said, 45 were still hospitalized, some in critical condition,” writes the Chicago Tribune.
 
Lombardo also confirmed that police do believe Paddock shot at large aviation fuel storage tanks. Igniting the tanks, which didn’t and probably couldn’t have happened, may have had a two-fold effect – furthering the carnage and more easily providing for an escape.
 
However, instead of continuing to question the motive of the shooter, many have begun to also question the police response and why the timeline of events keeps changing. The sheriff has not taken kindly to the questioning. “There is no conspiracy between the FBI, between LVMPD and the MGM,” Lombardo insisted. “Nobody is attempting to hide anything in reference to this investigation. The dynamics and the size of this investigation requires us to go through voluminous amounts of information in order to draw an accurate picture.”
 
I don’t doubt that there is a lot of information to digest, witnesses to interview and corroboration to confirm. But we’re talking about the 24/7 news cycle here, and Lombardo has to be conscious of just throwing out soundbites to momentarily appease the press. He should know, or certainly someone should be advising him, to get the facts straight, from start to finish and then release them. In other words, stop with the press conferences.
 
Instead he just keeps digging himself into a deeper hole every time he has to trot back out a correct something. Who cares if the press thinks your hiding something. What’s important is getting the facts right.
 
The greater mystery is where Jesus Campos disappeared to – and why. He of course is the hero Mandalay security guard who was shot in the leg when he approached Paddocks room some six minutes prior to the slaughter.
 
But now that has also changed. Instead of the six minutes, hotel officials claim  “it was no more than 40 seconds between the time Campos used his walkie talkie to call for help and Paddock opening fire…”

During the Friday presser, Lombardo said he was aware of the hotel’s claim and that he was “not in conflict with it.” If that’s the case, where did the original six minute recounting come from? There sure are a lot more questions than answers, aren’t there. Want another?
 
What the crap happened to our hero, Jesus Campos? On Thursday, just two days ago, he was slated to appear on five separate TV shows, and showed up for none. No one seems to know what happened to him. It’s bizarre.
 
ABC News reporter Stephanie Wash tweeted a quote from Campos’ Union President, saying, “We were in a room & we came out & he was gone.”
 
Sean Hannity was also slated to speak with Campos, and tweeted simply, “He Cancelled.” Well, he didn’t just cancel – he vanished into thin air, and nobody knows where he is. If someone does, they are not saying.
 
Again – this begs the question of the ever-changing timeline and whether Campos’ sudden disappearing act has anything to do with it. Oddly, the only changes in the timeline revolve around Campos.
 
One could say that with the noise and commotion, it would easy to confuse the timeline, yet according to the latest iteration, there was no noise or commotion until after Camposwas shot. 
This is indeed odd, with one weird event after another. I certainly am not making light of this tragedy, but has anyone checked if Las Vegas has a grassy knoll?

&&&&&

+++++

Dove Finds Mixing Business and Race Dangerous

2017-10-12

On April 22, 1800, Thomas Jefferson wrote a letter to William Hamilton. Within the letter was the famous quote: “I never considered a difference of opinion in politics, in religion, in philosophy, as cause for withdrawing from a friend. During the whole of the last war, which was trying enough, I never deserted a friend because he had taken an opposite side…”

 
The quote referred to Jefferson’s travel to Philadelphia to take the Vice Presidential oath of office on March 4, 1797. He said that many had come by to congratulate him – but many friends and acquaintances did not, owing only to political differences.
 
Yet as bad as Jefferson thought it was then, it is far worse today. These days, differences in religion and political views can get one hurt or worse. And it’s not just individuals. Sports teams and businesses are finding out that it’s better to steer clear of the caustic mix of business with politics.
 
However some corporations are wading in, trying mostly to curry favor with the socially progressive left. They are attempting to capitalize on what is today thought to be trendy. But they are discovering how dangerous it can be from both sides of the political spectrum.
 
Target stores took a major hit from the right when they announced their transgender bathroom and dressing room policy. And now Unilever, the makers of Dove products, are seeing a socially-conscious ad campaign backfire big time with leftists.
 
Dove’s short-lived Facebook ad promoting their women’s body wash, featured three women – a black, a white and a brown – maybe Indian or Middle Eastern. Wow – that’s nice and racially inclusive. What could have been the problem?
 
The problem was that ad showed a black woman pulling a t-shirt over her head, as one would before a shower. As she pulled the shirt over her head, the white woman appeared. The white female then did the same to reveal the brown woman. 


 
If you think this perfectly reasonable, you are obviously not part of the perpetually offended class – a small percentage of blacks who see oppression and racism in literally everything. In a harmless, non-threatening ad, they see racism, oppression, slavery, etc.
 
The UK Independent writes that, “Personal care brand Dove has been forced to apologize after releasing a series of “racist” images that appeared to show a black woman turning white after using the soap.”
 
Dove wrote on Twitter: “An image we recently posted on Facebook missed the mark in representing women of color thoughtfully. We deeply regret the offense it caused.”
 
Well Dove – you reap what you sow. This is what you get for trying to inject political correctness into your business plan. Yet I’m certain they were stunned at the response. I know I am. The ad is really quite innocuous, but as happens quite often – race baiters will take a portion completely out of context and hyper-focus on just that.
And the ever-neutral Washington Post took to fanning the flames of racial division by writing:
“Was Dove saying that inside every black woman is a smiling, redheaded white woman? Was Dove invoking the centuries-old stereotype that black is dirty and white is pure? Or that black skin can or should be cleansed away?”
Not a word was said about the white woman changing into a brown female. Apparently that’s not offensive.
 
Anyone with an ounce of common sense can plainly see that the ad is harmless. But this is the age we live in – an age where spoiled, pampered, hyper-sensitive children can’t see past their own skin color and thus define themselves by only that. 
Who are the real racists here?

&&&&&

+++++

Squishy Republicans are Calling it Quits

2017-10-11

In early September, Charlie Dent, Republican Congressman from Pennsylvania and co-chair of the moderate Tuesday Group, suddenly announced he was retiring from the House after seven terms in office.
 
So what. What’s the big deal? Well, it’s apparently a big deal to many – particularly it seems to publications on the left like The Atlantic. Yesterday, The Atlantic wrote a piece entitled, “Who Will Lead the Republican Moderates?” lamenting the exit next year of representative Dent.

 
You see, Dent is the current “leader” of the moderate wing of the Republican Party in Congress. So of course it’s a big deal to the left, for as we know, moderate Republicans are the only reasonable people in the GOP.
 
And he’s not the only squish high-tailing it out of town. Representatives Dave Trott of Michigan, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of Florida, Dave Reichert of Washington, John J. Duncan Jr. of Tennessee, Lynn Jenkins of Kansas and Sam Johnson of Texas are all packing it in.
 
Now if you are a Republican, you may think this terrible news that so many Republicans are leaving, until you dig just a bit deeper. And these days, it doesn’t take much digging. Conservative Review’s Liberty Score is a one-stop shop for a quick accounting of the above seven.
 
For those unaware, an elected officials’ Liberty Score is like a personal credit score. A credit score doesn’t give a detailed accounting of an individual’s credit health, but it is certainly enough to determine initial worthiness. And often, depending on the score, a creditor needs to look no further. If, for example, a creditor sees an applicant with a credit score of say, under 500, likely the creditor will reject the applicant’s request outright. A score that low pretty much tells them as much as they need to know.
 
The same can be said of the trusted conservative Liberty Score. The scoring ranges from A – F, with A being the most conservative and F being the least. Of the above list of retiring Republicans, only two, Sam Johnson of Texas and John J. Duncan Jr. of Tennessee had a score better than a big fat ‘F’. In other words, it’s the squishes who are heading for the hills.
 
As a conservative, I’m very broken up about this. If I may rephrase – here’s your hat – what’s your hurry.
 
But the leftist Atlantic is concerned. “These are ulcer-inducing times for moderate Republicans in Congress,” they write. “With frenzied nationalism, populism, and Trumpsanity dominating the politiscape, displaying centrist tendencies in today’s GOP is like wearing a Taylor Swift T-shirt to Kim and Kanye’s house for dinner: You should expect things to get nasty.”
 
I’m happy to admit – I pretty much don’t get that reference, but evidently, it’s bad. Of course, the same can be said of the dems. Being a democrat who displays anything other than radical leftist tendencies would, and is, ostracized.
 
“For years, Pennsylvania’s Dent has served as the lonely voice of the center-right—what he calls “the governing branch” of his conference.” Yes, because, it’s obvious that the Congressional “Freedom Caucus” has neither the ability nor inclination to govern.
 
If I may attempt a translation – what the Atlantic is trying to convey is that the sensible progressive centrists in the GOP are the only ones “fit” to govern, because they are so adept at “crossing the aisle,” willing to work with the socialists and communists in the democrat party to  build bipartisan consensus, to “get things done.” Did I get all the feel-good buzz words in there?
 
As the Atlantic continued to bemoan the loss of such a great moderate, Dent was quick to reassure the publication that there are still plenty to choose from to take his place as leader of the squishes. He was quick to suggest Elise Stefanik, Ryan Costello, Leonard Lance, Carlos Curbelo, John Katko, Brian Fitzpatrick, and Patrick Meehan. 
All but one of these has a Liberty Score of “F.” Fitzpatrick has a “D.” In other words the spineless, big government moderates will still be in great hands. And won’t that be great for everyone.

&&&&&

+++++

Is a World War III Just Déjà-vu All Over Again

2017-09-29

Are we prepared for yet another war? We might just get one – and I’m not just being hyperbolic.
 
To some, the stand-off between North Korea, the United States and our allies in the Pacific feels like déjà-vu all over again.

 
It is said there is nothing new in the world – at least regarding world events. It is just history that keeps repeating. And to some experts, the tensions between North Koreaand America are eerily similar to that of Japan and the U.S. prior to World War II.
 
There are definitely some similarities and certainly one major difference.
 
Prior to the run-up to World War II, Japan had been an ally and trading partner of the West – particularly of the U.S. and Great Britain. Japan purchased much of its oil, steel and scrap metal from America.
 
But after Woodrow Wilson (hate that guy) first denied Japan its share of German reparations from the post World War I Treaty of Versailles, there was a falling out.
 
Japan had become effectively isolated from the World and they felt threatened. Sound familiar? Mao’s China to the East, Stalin’s Soviet Union to the North, and the once Western Allies to the South.
 
The difference between then and now is that no one is even pondering to conquer North Korea. Why would anyone want to? But maybe it’s not the North they would desire.
 
In an attempt to protect itself, and build a buffer between it and it perceived enemies, Japan attacked and conquered much of China’s coast, Manchuria, as well as French Indochina, which today is Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia. It was then, in 1940, that the U.S. imposed and embargo of all oil and metal exports to Japan, and FDR ordered a freeze on all Japanese assets. They were now cut off and desperate. Again – sound familiar?
 
However, a major difference of pre-World War II Japan and North Korea today is that there were at least some cooler heads in Japan at the time. North Korea has but one lunatic at the helm controlling everything. Pat Buchanan once described Japan at the time as a two party system – A War Party and a Peace Party. North Korea has but one – the former.
 
This “Peace Party” attempted to negotiate an end to the embargo, but to no avail. For their failure, the Peace Party was summarily tossed and Hideki Tojo’s “War Party” assumed control of Japan.
 
While all this was occurring, America was tough shape. In 1939, when Hitler invaded Poland, our military was in shambles. We knew it, as did everyone else. Our fighting force was barely greater than that of the Netherlands. Thanks to General George Marshall, convincing FDR to stop denigrating our military and start building it up, we were able, in a relatively short period of time, to do just that.
 
But it was too late for Japan. They were out of options. So they attacked the United States, knowing full well they would be crushed if they were unable to strike a first fatal blow at Pearl Harbor. But when you feel desperate and isolated, you make stupid decisions. Sound familiar?
 
There is no doubt who would prevail in a war between North Korea and the West. The interesting question is what happens in the aftermath.
 
One could easily argue that if a peace accord could have been struck between Japanand America, and it was tried, subsequent wars involving the United States may have been avoided.
 
In the aftermath of World War II, communism spread like wildfire through Asia, taking over North Korea and most of Southeast Asia. The Soviets cemented themselves as the “Evil Empire,” and we were compelled to halt the spread of communism by means of the horrific conflicts in Southeast Asia (Vietnam) and the Korean Peninsula.
 
So what will occur in the aftermath of this war, should it occur? Would the Chinese decide to just take the entire Korean Peninsula – North and South? While we’re busy with North Korea, would they decide to finally annex Taiwan? And what of Putin and the Ruskies? Might he also take the opportunity to expand?
 
Who knows? But there are bad actors in that region now as there were then. And history tells us that Communists will always take advantage of any opportunity to expand.

&&&&&

