+++++

Blow: Dems won because they did NOT focus on angry white men

2017-11-09

Tuesday night’s election results were a major shot in the arm for the anti-Donald Trump resistance and a major slap in the face for all the Democrats who caterwauled last November about how the party had focused too much on courting women and minorities, and ignored angry white men.
That is how today’s New York Times column by Charles M. Blow, titled Resistance, for the Win!, begins.

It is a column well worth your read, and I am going to urge you to do so.

I am not going to spend as much time parsing it as is my wont, although I will share a bit.

Before I do, let me note the following:

- of the 15 House of Delegates seats in Virginia that Dems picked up, 11 were by women, including not only Danica Roem as a transgender woman (and she is NOT the first such state legislator, as MA had one preiously), but the first two Latinas in in the general assembly

- we saw Blacks elected as mayors across the country, including in places like St. Paul MN

- in Virginia, if one trust the Washington Post exit polls, the pattern was unmistakable:

Northam won the following groups

--  Woman 61-39

— Blacks 87-12

— Latinos 67-32

— net Non-Whites  80-19

a couple of comments about the above data, if I may.   I think the break among Latinos actually understates Northam’s performance, in part because there may have been an undersampling of that population where those who are more recent citizens are concentrated in some areas not part of the poll. I do not know that, but I can look at the results of some precincts in various jurisdictions that are heavily Latino and see results that are more anti-Trump.  Also, despite what some pundits have said, Northam ran a campaign that did focus on issues, especially health care (he is a doctor) and that is an issue than transcends most identity groups, and was by far the most important issue (the other exits show it as the top issue for 39% of voters, with no other issue exceeding 17% and Northam winning handily among those for whom it was the top issue).

So let me return to Blow’s column:

Blow is strongly pushing back against the notion that identity politics is a shibboleth, that addressing the issues of those traditionally left out somehow is what hurt Democrats in 2016 and earlier.  Consider this:

Objecting to identity politics is just a guise for objecting to politics for and about people who are not white, because as the British feminist author Laurie Penny explained to Salon in August:

“All politics are identity politics, especially the politics of the far right. They’re about this idea of white identity, this idea of male identity that feels so under attack at the moment. When people attack identity politics, they are attacking politics that prioritizes or even includes women, people of color, queer people.”
Blow of course rejects this, because as a Black man he has experienced it.

He views those in the Democratic party who argued about pursuing the angry white male portion of the electorate as allowing their politics to become situational, that they are pursuing mollification.

Consider these two powerful paragraphs:

For me, there is no middle: If you are supporting Donald Trump, you are supporting Trumpism and all that goes with it. That means that you are supporting a modus operandi that attacks people of color on every term, but keeps white supremacists safe. You are supporting Trump’s demeaning of women. You are supporting his bullying. You are supporting his corruption. You are supporting his pathological lying.

It is not the job of the resistance to drag you out of that. It is the job of the resistance only to be there when and if you tire of the darkness and crawl out into the light.
There are more powerful paragraphs, but I will let you read them on your own.

Except I will offer this Blow’s final paragraph:

Playing to the identity politics of Trump-loving angry white men — a clear expression of white supremacist patriarchy — isn’t a panacea. It’s not even prudent. And conversely, inclusive identity politics isn’t a poison. White supremacy, and the panic induced when that supremacy is threatened, is the poison.
Let me opine a bit further:

I am not arguing to pursue a specific identity politics.  I agree with Blow that focusing on the angry white man is stupid, depresses turnout of those who would support a more inclusive approach.  It is also generationally stupid, because younger people are much less concerned with white or male privilege, and much more inclusive by their own life experience.  Returning again to the Post exit poll, Northam won voters ages 18-29 by 69-30.  More importantly, enough of them turned out to make up 14% of the electorate.

Ralph Northam is a white male.  His policies were inclusive of ALL Virginians.  He was addressing the needs of ALL of the Commonwealth, regardless of gender, skin color, religion, national origin, or sexual orientation.

Yes, he won heavily among the better educated.  Maybe that is why so many Republicans are for cutting public education, and of course Trump did say he loved the poorly educated.

Dems may not be able to win over substantial chunks of the Trump base, but an approach that establishes a moral basis to meet the needs of all people, which does not seek to divide us by categories, or to pit one group of voters against others, encourages more people to turn out, and THAT is how Democrats can win even in seats gerrymandered to give Republicans an advantage.

Please, go read Blow’s column.  You will be glad you did.

And also this — make sure your own political advocacy is inclusive.  Anything else is immoral.

Peace.

&&&&&

+++++

quick thoughts from a Virginia resident

2017-11-08

First, I did say before election day that the pundits were overreacting to polling data in part because of 2013, and ignoring other key data, such as the surge in early voting (in person absentees) in heavily Democratic areas (especially the larger jurisdictions in NoVa). 

Second, when I saw the exit polls at 5 PM it was clear to me this was going to be a good night for Dems.   The number one issue, at 37%, was healthcare.  The next most important issue was only at 17%.  That was going to be a huge advantage for the Dems.  Despite the figures on Confederate statues, over which some agonized, I thought it was a relatively minor issue for most Virginians, and the binary choice masked the fact that some who in the exits were listed as favoring keeping the statues would have been happy either to see them moved to museums or to place them in situatons with more complete context as to the history.  Despite Richard Spencer and his White Nationalist buddies, and support from Trump and Gillespie, this is simply just not all that important to most Virginians.

Third, I think the criticism of Northam for not being a dynamic candidate entirely misses a key point at least in Virginia —  we do not need someone pundits view as a barn-burner to support strongly.   Everyone talks about how this was the biggest Dem gubernatorial win sine 1985.  That race was won by the Attorney General Gerald Baliles, who like Northam had a soft-spoken voice, a clear Virginia accent, and at times was considered to be too cerebral.  

Yes, there are things to criticize about Northam’s campaign, but he at least did not, unlike his opponent, run nasty attack ads.  That still matters in Virginia.  And yes, there are a lot of us who did not grow up in the Old Dominion, especially in NoVa where I have lived since 1982, and to a lesser degree in the Hampton Roads area where some who spend time in the military there choose to stay after their service.  But there is a tradition of a certain amount of civility in Virginia politics, and given Trump’s bluster seeing a bit of a reversion to that was not unexpected.

Also, Virginia Dems were united. Gubernatorial primary loser former Congressman Tom Perriello, who is a somewhat dynamic campaigners, worked tirelessly and then some for the entire Democratic ticket, helping narrow 2013 AG winner Mark Herring win comfortably and helping Justin Fairfax becoming only the 2nd African-American to win statewide office in Virginia.

The Democratic ticket put more resources into ground game than I have EVER seen in Virginia, and that made a difference.

Also key, and possibly leading to the biggest upset of the night —  Dems put up candidates in the large majority of Republican held seats in the House of Delegates, while our opponents left many of the Dem held seats unopposed, in part because those Dem seats had been gerrymandered to be heavily Democratic.  That perversely allowed Dems to shift resources from their safe seats to more competitive seats elsewhere.  We went into the night needing 17 seats to take control of the House of Delegates, with 17 Republican-held seats having been won by Clinton last year.  As I write this shortly after 5 AM on Wednesday, it looks like this:  Dems have absolutely won at least 15 and seem to have won a 16th, which would indicate a 50-50 split among the 100 members.  Ben Tribbett, known in Virginia as Not Larry Sabato, opined before Midnight that based on the evidence he thought the most likely final result would be 51-49 Democrat. Considering that we went into the evening with  66-34 Republican edge with heavily gerrymandered districts, that might seem surprising to some people.  But consider:   in order to get that edge in the House, Republican districts often had smaller margins of voters committed to be Republican — that is one factor people tend to forget.  I would add that Dems were contesting so many seats may have added 1-2% to the statewide Dem margin, as Dem leaning voters who normally had less reason to turn out did turn out.

As an addendum on this, when I saw on Twitter that Nate Cohn was suggesting the final margin in the Governor’s race could be 8% (It was almost 9), I wrote that at 7 or 8% the House of Delegates could well be in play and turn.

TURNOUT TURNOUT TURNOUT —   Nate Cohn had predicted an increase of 8% over 2013.  It apparently was more than 15%.   That was a key.  UPDATE:  those figures might be incorrect.  Statewide it may have only increased by 5-6%, but worth noting that turnout in NoVa increased more than in some of the more Republican areas, and in those areas, the increase may have been weaker Democratic voters.  I have not looked at the actual exit poll data on this, but on Morning Joe I heard that self-identified liberals were up by 8%.  (end of this update)

Remember, in Virginia we do not register by party.  We have now identified even more Democratic leaning voters.  That has some real implications going forward.

And IF Dems take control of the House, we would need to flip only one Republican Senate seat to have a 20-20 Senate with Fairfax able to break ties.  That would in theory give the opportunity to redraw Congressional lines before next November’s election.  Fairly drawn lines could change our Congressional delegation from 4 Dems and 7 Repubs to exactly the opposite.

Even without flipping the Senate, and possibly without gaining total control of the House, expansion of Medicaid seems likely.  Remember, health care was the major issue, and for a fair number of Republican held Senate districts Northam won comfortably.

And now I have to go to school.

Peace.

UPDATE some thoughts that occurred to me while driving to school.  Attempting to gerrymander in a state where the voter registration lists do not include party registration (officially we are all independents in Virginia and can vote in either party’s primary) is somewhat dicier than doing it in states where you have official party registration.  Thus there is an argument that the gerrymandering was not as big a stumbling block as some pundits made it.

And another thought — I said that in general Virginia appreciates civility.  I want to offer two additional comments on this.  First, I am a graduate of the flagship program of the Sorensen Institute of Political Leadership at the Miller Center at UVa. That Political Leaders Program has cohorts with several dozen people spanning the Commonwealth by geography, political orientation, age, gender, etc.  The idea is to build an increasing cohort of people who can work across divides that would ordinarily keep them apart in order to benefit the Commonwealth.  It is worth noting that an increasing share of the General Assembly (legislature) from both parties are graduates of Sorensen, including people who went through the program when already in the House of Delegates.

Second —  listening to Morning Joe as I drove in and he made what I think was a cogent comment about what happened in Charlottesville.   Regardless of where people may have stood on the issue of removing Confederate statues, there was strong revulsion first at the Alt-Right protests leading to the death of one person and an even stronger negative reaction to how Trump reacted —  the idea of good people on both sides.

Also worth noting, as one of the pan el (Van deHei?) that of the people who decided close to the election they broke heavily for Northam.  Seems like  Trump and Bannon’s involvement turned out to be a negative?


&&&&&

+++++

Robinson: The blood of innocents is on our hands

2017-11-07

The United States is alone among advanced countries in having gun policies that facilitate, rather than obstruct, deadly rampages such as Kelley’s. The Supreme Court has made clear in its rulings that the Second Amendment permits reasonable gun-control measures. This crisis is political, not constitutional.

You and I have the power to elect leaders who will reduce gun violence. The blood of innocents is on our hands.
That is the conclusion of Eugene Robinson’s Washington Post column in response to Sunday’s horrific shooting.

It is thorough, and very much to the point, and you should read it.

This is an issue to which Robinson has returned again and again, in large part because we have repeatedly as a society had to confront mass shootings.  As he writes in the column

I’ve written this column before, and I will have tragic occasion to write it again. I don’t care about that. I’ll keep writing it because we cannot become inured to this horrific gun violence. We cannot allow mass killings to become normalized, even though they happen with increasing and numbing frequency. We can accept the loss of life on the battlefield as the price of freedom but not senseless murder in the church pews.
We should not become inured, yet we have to wonder — after all, after the massacre at Sandy Springs elementary many of us thought we had finally reached the breaking point, and yet????

Robinson, who won a well-deserved Pulitzer for commentary some years ago and who is a regular on MS-NBC, reminds us that the NRA and its apologists will always tell us how any particular method of gun control would not have prevented the most recent massacre.  We have already seen the President pivot to saying this latest massacre was a mental health issue, which is was, somehow omitting the relevant fact that under his administration a regulation that would have prevented people with mental health issues from obtaining firearms was canceled without offering any replacement protections.

Robinson tells us why the NRA and its coterie do not want us to focus on guns and ammunition, because of many inconvenient questions which might arise,

Chief among them: Why do we make it easier to amass an arsenal of weapons of war than to get a driver’s license or register to vote?
I can remember Admiral Mike Mullen when head of the Joint Chiefs testifying that weapons like AR-15 types of rifles like that used on Sunday did not belong in civilian hands.  Except now there are millions of them.

Robinson calls not only for mandatory background checks, but for registries, of guns and ammunition.  That is likely to be strongly resisted, but that does not make it something that should not be seriously considered.

Yesterday our ridiculous President told the Japanese that they need more guns —  in a nation that last year had number of gun deaths less than ¼ that of the United States in just the shooting Sunday at the church — 6 total in a nation of 127 million, whereas we had about 33,000 in a nation less than 3 times as populous.   We are far more likely to die from gunshot domestically at the hands of someone who we would not classify as a terrorist than we would from any causes including guns at the hands of terrorists, as the recent incident in New York City should have reminded us.   Yes, we could theoretically consider the Las Vegas shooter a domestic terrorist but even the more than 50 killed there would not significantly alter that basic ratio.

And if you want to get a sense on the scope of how wide spread the problem is in America, perhaps you might spend some time at the Gun Violence Archive.

As he nears the conclusion of his powerful piece, Robinson also takes aim at the fevered conspiracies of some on the political right with this paragraph:

To those who spend part of each day scanning the skies for black helicopters, I say relax; the government already knows who you are, where you live, what you drive and how much money you earn. If you’re on Facebook, you’re probably telling the whole world much more. A week ago, Kelley posted a photo of his assault rifle.
As we should have learned during the Reagan administration, there is a ton of information about us readily available online.  When Congress tried to bar John Poindexter’s government run idea on Total Information Awareness, there was nothing to stop the Department of Defense or other government agencies from purchasing that information from corporations who already gather it.  All newer phones have GPS that tracks our location.  And many people, like the shooter Sunday, put lots of information about themselves on social media.

We fret about how this information is a violation of our civil liberties.  Perhaps  But our most basic civil liberty is life itself.  And NO right in the Bill of Rights has ever been absolute, which can give the government the power to restrict otherwise protected rights if it can meet the strict scrutiny standard.

And as Robinson writes in the paragraph before the two with which I began this post,

I hear you sighing that none of this, realistically, is going to happen. I respond: But it should.
Today is an election day.  Here in Virginia where I sit in a living room in Arlington writing this piece, we will elect all 3 statewide offices and all 100 members of the House of Delegates.   There are real distinctions between candidates for these offices.  My wife would say that the most important is to honestly address the environmental crisis, because if we destroy the environment nothing else will matter.   That may be true.  Life itself could be jeopardized for billions.

Here in the United States life is increasingly jeopardized by gun violence, and as recent incidents have shown us none of us can necessarily feel secure from it even in ordinary tasks of living.

To which I would add that those who oppose sensible gun control are also those who seem to want to deny the reality of climate change.

Which brings us back to the fact that today is an election day.

And that brings us to the final words in Robinson’s column, which I now repeat:

You and I have the power to elect leaders who will reduce gun violence. The blood of innocents is on our hands.

Peace?  Not until we address this crisis.

&&&&&

+++++

random (?) thoughts on shootings, artists, students, and more

2017-11-05

I sit in my living room, with the sound from MS-NBC coming from 2 rooms away, with basically non-stop coverage of the shooting in the Texas church:  between that and checking my Twitter feed there are apparently 27 dead, including the 14 year old daughter of the pastor.  Apparently the shooter was white, but no other information.  The type of weapon not yet identified (but if he did not reload more likely a long-gun than a hand gun, given the number killed and wounded — and why is that information that I readily mentally access when I last fired a weapon of any kind in 1966?).

I had been reflecting on artists whose work I can admire even if they might in other ways be loathsome.  Certainly that can apply to several Oscar winning actors, with Kevin Spacey and Casey Affleck immediately coming to mind.  But what started that train of though was a man I first saw more than 60 years ago, when on a Friday Night in 1959 I first watched Rawhide, the ongoing tale of a cattle drive starring Eric Fleming as the trail boss Gil Favor, with the 2nd star being a young Clint Eastwood as Rowdy Yates, the ramrod, or #2.  It was Eastwood who caused this reflection.

Much of his corpus as an actor was not necessarily all that distinguished, but he was constantly learning his craft, and also learning that of directing, of which he became a master. I thought of the many masterful movies he has directed because I again caught the end of Sully (which btw was executive produced by Steve Mnuchin) on cable earlier today.  I remembered how many actors/actresses love to work with Eastwood as a director, and all those who have won Oscars under his direction.  I also thought of some of his less awarded films that are still very moving, for example Gran Torino in 2008, which I still enjoy when it comes on cable from time to time.

I certainly do not like the politics of Clint Eastwood, and what I know of his personal life is not something I would hold up as a model. And yet I cannot deny the brilliance of the corpus of his work.

That led me to reflect on others, primarily musicians given my own background and training.  Johannes Brahms was not a particularly nice person, although he was clearly very wounded by a childhood shaped to a large degree by playing piano in a Hamburg whorehouse. Yet I adore most of his music.  And then there is Richard Wagner, someone whose anti-semitism is horrifying, and yet whose music is often incredibly sublime and moving.

That got me to another point in my reflection.  I thought of the biblical notion of holding fast that which is good, of the idea of condemning the sin but not the sinner, of the Quaker notion of ANSWERING that of God in each person. I write these words on blog primarily devoted to politics.  Of its nature politics should involve some degree of compromise.  Here I think of James Madison’s ideas about factions in Federalist 10, that there are no permanent majorities.  That, and the very design of our political system, was to require compromise, to work together on issues where we can agree even if we are in great conflict on others.

Hold fast that which is good —  as a teacher I cannot be constantly critical or I will not reach the vast majority of my students.  I have to find ways of affirming something positive to form the human connections which may enable me to help my students get out of their comfort zones, overcome their fears, and grow both as students and as human beings.

If I understand that kind of relationship in that context, should not it apply for me in others? That is, I can praise what is praiseworthy even as I call to account on other grounds, be those sexism, selfishness, racism, obtuseness, … whatever.

And to carry the thought further, I can and must be simultaneously willing to accept and affirm what I do that is good yet be willing to accept and address my own failures, small and large.

that reminds me of my favorite line from the tales of the Desert Fathers, the earliest monks, where a young novice asks his teacher what they do in those desert settings and is told “we fall, we pick ourselves up; we fall, we pick ourselves up...”  The Greek word used for sin means literally missing the mark.  And perhaps it is in viewing things in that light that true repentance and rehabilitation becomes possible, whereas punitive punishment and rejection does not heal, does not truly resolve the situations that cause pain.

I have known anger.  I have known madness.  My own and others.  One of my worst moments was in 1968 when a young lady tripping on LSD attached herself to me because she found my eyes and voice fascinating.  For some reason, perhaps because of wallowing in perceived hurt and injury, I started fantasizing about being like Charles Whitman who went up on the Tower at UT Austin and began shooting people in the first mass shooting I can clearly remember.  The young lady ran out of my apartment screaming, and I realized I needed help addressing my woundedness.

I think America needs help addressing its woundedness.  There is still good in America, although the notion of American Exceptionalism sometimes elevates that beyond where it belongs and blinds us to our own sin, our own missing of the mark.  Much of our history is not pleasant, and too many of our young people do not learn it.  Learning that history can actually motivate them to hold fast that which is good, to insist upon the ideals that should be the guiding light of the American ideal.

My title says these thoughts are random(?).  I try to connect them.  In that I may not be successful, but I hope this posting may help serve to prod others to reflect and share, because as we react to things we each do so from a different context, a different life experience, and when we share that with one another we all benefit.  Light shines upon dark spaces from which we may individually shy away, but the “demons” of those darknesses cannot stand up to the bright light of our sharing together.

Artists are among those whose work especially enlightens us, moves us sometimes more than we can move ourselves.  The Walt Kowalski of Gran Torino is a man who grows beyond his prejudice, who chooses to sacrifice himself to address a festering sore in an ethnic community whose presence has intruded into his own otherwise limited world. The shooting scene in Unforgiven where former gunslinger William Munny cauterizes some emotional wounds  (his and others) as he kills Little Bill Daggett and others, avenging his friend who was murdered, but then returns to the quiet (almost desperately so) life he was living after the death of his wife.   The performances in that movie by Eastwood and Morgan Freeman are powerful, but it is Gene Hackman who wins an Oscar.  Others who have won Oscars under Eastwood include Hillary Swank, Freeman, Tim Robbins, and Sean Penn.  Part of the brilliance of Eastwood is his ability to get others to be the shining lights that illuminate aspects of the human condition for the rest of us.

Great art challenges us  Wagner's operas and the music of Brahms are great art.  So is a great chunk of the work of Clint Eastwood, especially as a director.

Tragedy also illuminates our human condition, and shines light into places that at times we may not want to go.

For me the thoughts may seem random, but I found them connected.  And as a teacher I cannot help but wonder what it means to my students.  I guess I will find out tomorrow, when I next see them.

Peace.



&&&&&
