+++++

Trump bodyguard admits Trump was offered 'five women' during Moscow trip

2017-11-09

By far the most salacious bit of gossip in the "Steele dossier," a collection of unverified reports about Donald Trump's myriad ties to Russian businessmen and government, is the accusation that Trump, in Moscow, hired a group of prostitutes to his room to urinate on the bed that he had been told President Barack Obama had once slept in—and that Russian intelligence services had tape of this happening.

We do not know if the supposed "pee tape" is real. Trump's trusted top lieutenant, of course, insists it is not—while admitting that the offer was made.

After a business meeting before the Miss Universe Pageant in 2013, a Russian participant offered to "send five women" to Donald Trump's hotel room in Moscow, his longtime bodyguard told Congress this week, according to three sources who were present for the interview. [...]
That night, two sources said, Schiller said he discussed the conversation with Trump as Trump was walking back to his hotel room, and Schiller said the two men laughed about it as Trump went to bed alone. Schiller testified that he stood outside Trump's hotel room for a time and then went to bed.
This version of events acknowledges that indeed, a Russian "businessman" offered up an assortment of prostitutes for Trump, during his Moscow trip, but insists that noted womanizer, pervert, sexual assaulter, general crook and forever-lying-about-everything Donald Trump turned down the offer because of course he would never do such things.

Hmm. This feels like a version of events that, like Donald Junior's multiple interpretations of his Trump Tower meeting with a Russian delegation who just happened to be in town because reasons, will likely be revised in future tellings. The people around Trump tend to do that quite a bit.

But it's interesting that Schiller is admitting that an event very much like what was described in the Steele documents did indeed take place. Can’t wait to hear more about that.


&&&&&

+++++

'Trumpism without Trump' went down in flames last night

2017-11-08

Former Trump adviser and space blancmange with mysterious intentions Steve Bannon has based his website (Breitbart) and "political" career around the premise that America is, at heart, a collection of dim-witted white racists who have no particular morals, ethics, ideology, or agenda other than protecting themselves from The Hated Other. Who the ”other” is varies by circumstance and opportunity, but is generally understood to be the same targets as similar far-right xenophobic campaigns across the world and across history: immigrants, minorities, sexual "deviants," and perceived religious enemies.

The goal is overt suppression of these groups, and if that requires either remaking the state itself or running roughshod over the same supposed principles and beliefs that were supposedly sacred the week before, then the self-described "nationalists" will do so with gusto and with boldly worded posters and newly invented, fact-averse "news" sources that will tell you what the new beliefs of the moment are on any given morning, so you don't have to go looking for them yourself.

He's right, of course. There are many, many dim-witted, amoral white racists who get all a-sweaty over the dream of a fascist paradise in which The Other are given their what-for and greasy manchildren of no particular talent rule over the land by force of law. But they are not the majority, and in yesterday's elections, across a great many states both red and blue and in a great number of races both large and small, a greater portion of America rose up to kick that would-be idea of a new, more hateful America square in its ass.

Why? Ah, the great golden egg of punditry.

You cannot claim it was not because of Donald Trump. You cannot suppose that it had nothing to do with the murder of churchgoers in a small-town Texas church, not long after the Las Vegas Strip murder of dozens of concertgoers. You cannot brush away the sight of torch-wielding white racists marching to declare a new public movement against the non-whites and the non-Christians peering out their windows at the crowd, or the casual, seemingly impulsive murder that resulted.

You cannot suppose that the near-sneering response by dozens of supposed leaders called upon to act on these things had no impact.

No matter how contemptuous Americans are of the process by which our national laws get made, you cannot suppose that a year of congressional battles to strip health insurance from people who, in polling, are quite certain they do not want it stripped, and who have family members themselves who have benefited from the things their leaders now want to discard—you cannot assume that voters ignored that in the voting booths.

A year ago, voters who had lost their faith in politics voted for a crude-minded, hateful, blustering showman they had seen on television because he smugly assured them he could fix it all. Perhaps they believed him, or perhaps they intended their votes as an act of simple arson: If the current system is not working, then to hell with the current system.

But he didn't fix it all. He didn't do anything. He showed up on the job as nothing more than a blustering showman, and he yelled and he shouted and he went golfing at his own resorts and not a single damn thing changed. He shouted hateful things, and some people liked that. He shouted hateful things, and some people didn't but were fine with it, if it was going to make their lives better. But he didn't. He just kept shouting, and Republicans came to take their health insurance, and nobody did anything about the drugs or the jobs, and people in Klan robes started marching down the streets.

There will always be true believers. Even today, we are still being treated to lavish profiles of small-town true believers who don't care if he keeps his promises and who learn from their churches that Obama is probably the antichrist. There will be always be people like that—stupid people, dumb as posts, gullible idiots who will believe whatever their favorite channels tell them. They will be interviewed by earnest reporters as salt of the earth types in articles that go to great pains to avoid addressing the obvious ignorance, gullibility, and dim-wittedness of the subjects and, nine times out of 10, dodge the racism entirely.

But a large number of the people who voted for Trump one year ago didn't show up this time around.

And a much larger number of people, people who may have voted for the arsonist last November or who may not have, took a look at how their nation had changed since the last time they had gone to the polls and, indisputably, said enough of that.

Republican Ed Gillespie ran a racist campaign with racist flyers, racist messages, and racist advertisements. On Tuesday, he and his entire party were disemboweled by the voters. They didn't just lose: they were gutted.

Similar racist campaigns in other states were similarly rebuffed. Anti-immigrant spite, in particular, seems less effective than Trump and those who have wrapped themselves around him had supposed.

Nor the misogyny. Nor transphobia.

In the wake of the election of a garbage fire of a man to the presidency, the Republican Party could surmise only one lesson: Be more like the garbage fire. Embrace the garbage fire. Be sexist, because sexism was "in" now. Be frothingly anti-immigrant, because that is what the garbage fire did. Lie flagrantly, and often, because that is what he does.

It didn't work. You can take whatever lesson you want from that, but we had an election yesterday. And it didn't work.




&&&&&

+++++

Russian Twitter accounts started backing Trump almost immediately after his campaign announcement

2017-11-06

It's a day of the week, so it's time for new revelations about the scope of Russian attempts to manipulate public opinion in favor of Donald Garbage Fire Trump. Today's (other) revelation: The effort to boost Trump and sow opposition to his opponents started within weeks from his descent from his golden escalator.

Russian Twitter accounts posing as Americans began lavishing praise on Mr. Trump and attacking his rivals within weeks after he announced his bid for the presidency in June 2015, according to the analysis by The Wall Street Journal. [...]
In the three months after Mr. Trump announced his presidential candidacy on June 16, 2015, tweets from Russian accounts reviewed by the Journal offered far more praise for the real-estate businessman than criticism—by nearly a 10-to-1 margin. At the same time, the accounts generally were hostile to Mrs. Clinton and the early GOP front-runner, Jeb Bush, by equal or greater margins.
That's an interesting bit of information, because it indicates that the Russian troll farms were much quicker to rally to Trump than has previously been supposed. U.S. intelligence services have previously supposed, at least in their public interpretations of events, that Russian efforts were focused merely on sowing discord during the elections, but only moved toward favoring Trump, specifically, late in the campaign. This muddies that theory a bit.

It wasn't a piecemeal effort, either:

Many political messages were sent out word-for word by multiple Russian-backed accounts, often within minutes of each other, suggesting a coordinated campaign.
As to why the Russian troll farms jumped so quickly to Trump's side, even when nobody else in the world considered his candidacy to be anything other than a narcissistic summer joke, that's up for speculation. It could be that Trump, obviously stupid and barely able to get words out of his word-hole, was immediately seen as the worst possible candidate and therefore the one that would be the most hilarious to promote. Or it may have been a more calculated decision, based on past Russian interactions with Trump and his extended circle of money-laundering friends; moron or no, this was a man who had a proven history of doing unsubtle favors for Russians that needed favors done.

Hard to say. It's difficult to believe Russia would put its not-entirely-unlimited resources toward screwing with the American election "on a lark"—given the international drama unleashed if and when such acts were revealed. But stranger things have happened.



&&&&&

+++++

Trump: Japanese Prime Minister Abe will shoot North Korean missiles 'out of the sky'

2017-11-06

President Flaming Toxic Garbage Fire continues to be insane on the soil of other countries, rather than just hoarding his staggering stupidity for dispensing on the home crowd. His current focus is on getting Japan to fight North Korea without the U.S. having to get its hands dirty, or it may just be that Donald has his eye on the military's salesman of the month trophy.

In his first stop of an extended trip in Asia, Trump stood with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at a news conference and suggested the United States will arm Japan, much as the United States has done with allies in the Middle East like Saudi Arabia. He did not deny reports that he has expressed frustration that Japan did not shoot down a ballistic missile North Korea recently fired over its territory.
“He will shoot ’em out of the sky when he completes the purchase of lots of additional military equipment from the United States,” Trump said of Abe. “He will easily shoot them out of the sky.”
He sounds like a door-to-door vacuum cleaner salesman. Have you got a bad case of the missiles, my new best friend? What you need here is mah new and improved Q-36 explosive space modulator-slash-missile-cleaner-upper. Guaranteed to clean up missiles or your money back, asterisk, no money back."

In fact, his motive appears to be entirely sales-related.

“The prime minister of Japan is going to be purchasing massive amounts of military equipment, as he should.”
“It’s a lot of jobs for us and a lot of safety for Japan,” the president added.
He seems rather cavalier about the whole question of whether North Korea and Japan should get themselves in a possibly-profitable-for-weapons-manufacturers-until-everything-quickly-goes-straight-to-hell shooting war, and Japan’s own constitution prohibits it from initiating hostile actions against another nation, but that is Donald Trump. The man lives in the moment, and in this particular moment the commercials on Fox News are telling him he needs to sell Japan some catheters, some gold coins, and the services of one or more of America's top military equipment manufacturers. Whichever.

&&&&&

+++++

NBC: Mueller has enough evidence to indict ex-Trump adviser Michael Flynn

2017-11-05

NBC claims to have confirmed what most observers have long suspected: The Mueller probe of Russian espionage during the 2016 elections and potential campaign collusion has "enough evidence" now to bring charges against Trump national security adviser Michael Flynn.

Federal investigators have gathered enough evidence to bring charges in their investigation of President Donald Trump's former national security adviser and his son as part of the probe into Russia's intervention in the 2016 election, according to multiple sources familiar with the investigation.
Michael T. Flynn, who was fired after just 24 days on the job, was one of the first Trump associates to come under scrutiny in the federal probe now led by Special Counsel Robert Mueller into possible collusion between Moscow and the Trump campaign.
Also in the crosshairs: Flynn's conspiracy-peddling idiot son, who "could be indicted separately or at the same time as his father, according to three sources familiar with the investigation."

A Flynn indictment, if and when it comes, would escalate the political chaos in the Trump White House tenfold. Flynn was the adviser who Trump asked his then-FBI director James Comey to stop investigating, shortly before Trump fired Comey; those actions may themselves represent an illegal attempt by Trump to obstruct justice.

Given the actions Trump has already taken to protect Flynn—for, one presumes, reasons pertaining more to Trump's welfare than Flynn's—many speculate that Trump would respond to a Flynn indictment by issuing a blanket, preemptive pardon of his ex-adviser.

For all these reasons and others, it's not clear whether special counsel Robert Mueller and his team will be eager to indict Flynn anytime soon, or will delay that indictment until other portions of the investigation have been further pursued. The team may choose to indict Flynn soon, forcing a Trump response that may further incriminate the White House itself, or may focus on other targets, keeping Flynn's fate on hold.

But if NBC's sources are to be believed, a Flynn indictment—or several—is in the works. Now we're just waiting to see when that shoe will drop.

&&&&&

+++++

Trump asked why 'a country of samurai warriors' wouldn't shoot down NK missiles

2017-11-05

Before President Garbage Fire set out for his agonizingly long Asia trip, he apparently did his level best to make sure the nations he would be visiting had a keen awareness of just what sort of garbage fire they would be dealing with.

Trump questioned Japan’s decision not to shoot down the missiles when he met or spoke by phone with leaders from Southeast Asian countries over recent months to discuss how to respond to the threats from North Korea, the sources said.
The U.S. president said he could not understand why a country of samurai warriors did not shoot down the missiles, the sources said.
This story is anonymously sourced, so we do not know if it is true. We do, however, know that Donald Trump is an unbelievable moron whose only knowledge of the world comes from whatever is on television that day, so... yeah.


&&&&&

+++++

Administration promises to fight opioid addiction have yet to include a budget to do it

2017-11-04

The Trump "administration" response to the national opioid epidemic continues to be foiled by the same thing that has stalled innumerable would-be Republican promises before it: Nobody wants to spend any damn money on the thing.

President Trump’s bipartisan commission on the opioid crisis made dozens of final recommendations on Wednesday to combat a deadly addiction epidemic, ranging from creating more drug courts to vastly expanding access to medications that treat addiction, including in jails.
The commissioners did not specify how much money should be spent to carry out their suggestions, but they pressed Congress to “appropriate sufficient funds” in response to Mr. Trump’s declaration last week of a public health emergency.
The White House still hasn't given any hint that they want actual, budgeted funds to be a part of the administration response; as of the moment, the program remains entirely aspirational. And the odds of Republican leaders Paul Ryan and Mitch McConnell agreeing to billions in new public health funding while in the middle of battles to cut the taxes of top income earners and cripple other healthcare reform efforts would seem to be, as an educated guess, zero.

Richard Frank, a health economics professor at Harvard Medical School who worked in the Obama administration, estimated that it could cost roughly $10 billion a year to provide medication and counseling to everyone with opioid use disorder who is not already in treatment. Treating opioid-dependent newborns, meeting the needs of children in foster care because of their parents’ addiction and treating hepatitis C and other illnesses common among opioid addicts would cost “many billions more,” Mr. Frank said.
Well, you can bet they won't be doing that. Congress has been fighting a bitter war over whether to give poor and/or uninsured newborn children food and/or health care they need for four decades. The Republican demand is that those programs be cut, cut, cut, to use our newest technical terms for such things.

Again, these Republican assurances that they will indeed be will be taking what they themselves portray as a national crisis of opioid addition have felt entirely aspirational. And, more to the point, insincere. Part of that is the installation of (sigh) Jared Kushner as a supposed point man for the effort; far more of it is based on the longstanding Republican resistance to spending substantive money on any public health crisis, a resistance that continues to this very moment and which shows not a single sign of abating.

So, ya know, nobody is holding their breath on this one. Perhaps the administration is serious about combating opioid use, or perhaps it is window-dressing to make it appear that an administration that roundly does not give a flying damn about the little people in any capacity, on any issue, might theoretically give a bit of a damn on this. If the White House, or Congress, is indeed serious, however, now would be the time to put up or shut up.


&&&&&

+++++

Before and after Russia probe indictments, Fox News worked feverishly to discredit the investigation

2017-10-31

Just before it was publicly disclosed that Special Counsel Robert Mueller had filed indictments against as-of-yet-unnamed Trump-tied figures, Fox News went on an absolute tear against Mueller—with talking heads like Sean Hannity demanding the special counsel resign. They also engaged in one of the most transparent attempts at partisan propaganda-peddling the network had ever undertaken, suddenly puffing up a conspiracy theory linking Hillary Clinton to uranium mining that had never before taken root among conservatives because it had always been a wee bit too stupid-sounding even for the Sean Hannity crowd.

A week later, that push appears to be clear evidence that Fox had information that indictments were forthcoming—and was seeking to undermine their impact. This would be unthinkable for a "news" operation, but as a network devoted to propagandizing the news in service to a narrow subset of the Republican agenda, it was unsurprising.

Vox took it upon themselves to analyze how the Fox network covered the Mueller investigation, the guilty plea of Trump campaign adviser Papadopoulos, and the indictment of campaign head Paul Manafort. The Fox efforts to propagandize the news were robust, consisting both of substantive omissions.

Fox also talked significantly less about George Papadopoulos — the Trump campaign adviser whose plea deal with Mueller provides the most explicit evidence thus far that the campaign knew of the Russian government’s efforts to help Trump — than its competitors.
And contrafactual misdirections:

Both of these stories were used by Fox News to say the Mueller investigation is really about Clinton and the FBI. Conservative news outlets bought into this framing and ran with it. In fact, even as Mueller was about to bring indictments, Fox News couldn’t stop talking about the investigation in the context of Clinton:
And after the indictments were made public, Fox doubled down on their efforts to discredit not the indicted Trump aides, but the man who indicted them.

As intriguing as the network's coverage (or non-coverage) of the indictment of Trump campaign officials may be, it is at this point par for the course. It is a given that the Fox network will intentionally slant the news they present to the American public in order to paint a picture that boosts Republicans and renders all news that may be unflattering to Republicans "suspicious" or the result of a conspiracy against those Republicans.

But the efforts Fox took to preemptively attack Mueller on the eve of the released indictments, now that's interesting. The urgent (and bizarre) focus on a new "Uranium One" conspiracy came just days before the Mueller investigation produced its first guilty plea from a member of the Trump campaign team; outside observers can be forgiven for wondering whether the network had received advance information about the state of the Mueller probe that drove the new efforts to muddy the waters of the Russia election-hacking investigation.


&&&&&

+++++

New PPP poll: Donald Trump is more frightening than zombies, ghosts, and werewolves

2017-10-31

Happy Halloween. If you're hard up for costume ideas, why not go as the hell that is our actual life now?

[W]e tested Donald Trump against a litany of Halloween related things and asked voters which they thought was scarier between Trump and the items. Voters think Trump is scarier than ghosts (49/40), vampires (48/40), mummies (also 48/40), witches (49/42), zombies (46/43), and werewolves (45/44). People aren’t messing around with the devil though- they say he is scarier than Trump by a 51/31 spread:
These new polling results will probably infuriate Donald, who will work his wee little finger-stumps off on Twitter tonight in an attempt to prove he is too scarier than the Devil.

In other PPP polling news, Trump voters like candy corn (62 percent) considerably more than Clinton voters do (47 percent), and voters disfavor "Pumpkin Spice lattes" by a 2 to 1 margin. Which brings up another fine Halloween costume idea: Hollow out a pumpkin, stick it over your head, and lie to everyone you meet about everything they ask you about. Boom, you're Pumpkin Spicer.

In non Halloween related polling, Trump's approval rating sunk another 7 points in the last month (to 38 percent), 56 percent of voters believe him to be dishonest, 52 percent call him a "liar," and just 31 percent of voters believe Trump has succeeded in Making America Great Again. We should probably either put those 31 percent in quarantine, or at least demand they tell us what drugs they are taking.

Oh, and 49 percent of American voters support impeaching Trump. Which is a new high, if we're keeping track—which we probably need to start doing.



&&&&&

+++++

Steve Bannon urging Trump to defund Russia investigation, withhold documents from investigators

2017-10-31

White nationalist propagandist and authoritarian clump of cheese Steve Bannon is back at the helm of Breitbart after a brief stint as Donald Trump's top adviser, but that doesn't mean Bannon is out of the adviser business. And he's advising Trump to engage in the intentional obstruction of justice.

[F]ormer White House chief strategist Steve Bannon is pushing Trump to take action against Mueller, urging him in particular to defund the investigation, according to several sources familiar with Bannon’s thinking – a move that would defang Mueller without the president formally firing him.
What we have here is further evidence that Steve Bannon is not half as smart as he thinks he is, if he thinks Donald Trump taking Mueller's staff and office keys from him would be, somehow, less obvious a move to obstruct the investigation into Russian election hacking and campaign collusion than firing the special counsel outright.

That he is urging this just as prosecutors have produced their first criminal charges against a member of the Trump campaign for lying to federal investigators about specific attempts to collude with the Russian government, after being informed that the Russian government had obtained Clinton-related emails, is a nice capper.

As to precisely why Steve Bannon is so vexed over Mueller's investigation, we can only speculate. Bannon is notoriously tight-lipped about the funding for his own ventures, even as his website works tirelessly to promote many of the same conspiracy theories that Russian propaganda teams have themselves pushed. He may simply be operating in his usual political plane: advocating for the instillation of white-nationalist supportive fascism in the Oval Office.

But he also has been in a position to know precisely what federal investigators may find, if they dig into Trump campaign and administration records too deeply. And CNN reporter Dana Bash reports Bannon is explicitly pushing Trump to withhold evidence from the special counsel.

"I’m told Bannon pushing trump to be more aggressive against Mueller: urge gop to cut funding, withhold document production and more," Bash wrote on Twitter.
Bannon seems certain that even a full and public effort to obstruct justice would not lead to Trump's impeachment. He may be right. Senate and House Republican leaders have been ostentatious in their efforts to ignore and dismiss evidence of criminal acts within the Trump campaign and White House, and trusting either Paul Ryan or Mitch McConnell to put their nation above their party even when confronted with direct evidence of that obstruction would be a fool's game.

Bannon might also, however, have a keener idea of where the bodies are buried in the Trump administration than almost anyone else in the country. So if he's furiously demanding Trump hide documents from federal prosecutors, it may have nothing to do with his authoritarianish ideologies. He may just be sweating over what those documents contain.



&&&&&

+++++

Round-up: Trump campaign manager Manafort indicted, his adviser pleads guilty to lying about Russia

2017-10-30

This morning, indictments were unsealed charging former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort and associate Rick Gates with, among other charges, conspiracy against the United States, conspiracy to launder money, false statements, and acting as an unregistered agent of a foreign power.

The indictments are the first brought by special counsel Robert Mueller in his probe of Russian government-sponsored hacking against the United States and related criminal acts during the 2016 presidential elections. In the charges, Manafort and Gates are alleged to have engaged in money laundering during their work for the Trump campaign; while Manafort was not being paid for his campaign work during his time as Trump campaign manager, he was taking payments from "a foreign power linked to Russia."

The indictments specifically charge that Manafort and Gates worked "together with others," who are as of yet unnamed.

Also this morning, a guilty plea by Trump campaign foreign policy adviser George Papadopolous was made public. Papadopolous has pled guilty to lying to the FBI about contacts between the Donald Trump presidential campaign and agents acting on behalf of the Russian government. The government's complaint confirms that Papadopolous was directly told of "thousands of emails" the Russian government had obtained from the Clinton campaign—before the hacking had become public knowledge—and that he worked repeatedly during the campaign to broker meetings between higher-level Trump officials, including Trump himself, and the Russian government.

Papadopolous pled guilty as part of a plea arrangement and is described as cooperating with investigator's ongoing probe—and, pivotally, may have been acting as government informant for a period of several months before today's indictments.

A summary of the rest of the day's indictment news and snippets:

• Donald Trump attempted a pre-emptive response to leaked news of today's indictments with, as is now usual when the Trump administration has knowledge of an upcoming damaging story, a weekend Twitter meltdown.

• After the indictments were unsealed, Trump re-took to Twitter to declare that "this is years ago" and "Also, there is NO COLLUSION!"

• The official White House reaction to the indictments could itself only be described as divorced from any semblance of reality, with press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders repeatedly insisting that the indictment of Donald Trump's prior campaign manager and guilty plea by a campaign foreign policy adviser "doesn't have anything to do with us."

• Other Republican hacks declared the indictments to either be a "nothing burger" or were timed to "distract" from new Republican-led charges of Something Something Hillary Clinton.

• Despite White House protestation, Donald Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort was, as is evidenced by his "campaign manager" title, one of the pivotal figures of the Trump campaign efforts.

• While Republican legislative leaders refused to comment on the indictments, other senators are introducing legislation to protect the special counsel and his investigation from being fired by Trump if the investigation threatens to implicate him or his key allies.

• With a Manafort indictment focused on money laundering from Russian sources into the United States, Mueller's probe is squarely targeting criminal activities that Donald Trump himself has long been alleged to be involved with. There is considerable speculation that Mueller's indictment of Manafort is intended to encourage the former campaign manager to cooperate with the government's Russia investigation—by ensuring Manafort knows just how many decades of prison time may await him if he does not cooperate.

• The also-indicted Rick Gates is one of the founding members of "America First Policies," a political group devoted to supporting the Trump agenda.


&&&&&

+++++

Rep. Trey Gowdy remains an astonishingly, breathtakingly small and stupid man. Maybe.

2017-10-29

An honest question: Is House Benghazi investigator Rep. Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, stupid?

This question comes up yet again because Gowdy seems entirely unable to grasp the basic outlines of the investigation into whether members of a major presidential campaign may have collaborated with Russian government espionage efforts. And, presuming he is not intentionally covering for such collaboration by tossing out intentional misdirections—in accordance with a transparent Republican and conservative and, especially, Fox News-led media effort to do precisely that—he seems to be as dumb as a fucking post.

“That’s been my focus in 2017 ― understanding that Russia tried to subvert our democracy,” he continued. “And it would be great if my Democratic friends helped a little bit.” [...]
Gowdy pointed to reports that linked opposition research by the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign with a secret dossier about Trump and his alleged ties to Russia. Both the DNC and the Clinton campaign have maintained they had no knowledge a law firm they worked with had made payments toward the research.

“It’s certainly interesting whether it’s collusion, coincidence, coordination ― I don’t know yet,” Gowdy said about the recent reports on the alleged Democratic funding of the dossier.
Gowdy was taking the lead of his Fox News host, who hypothesized that Democrats hiring a firm to do opposition research into Trump that turned up links between Trump and Russia is itself evidence of a Clinton “link” to Russia far greater than that of Donald Trump. This is every bit as stupid as it sounds, and was quite possibly a question posed on a dare, possibly while his Fox News host was swimming in a pool of cocaine.

Gowdy and host both ignored the similar involvement of a prominent conservative outlet in the now famous "dossier" that resulted from that research, possibly because it is inconvenient for them to mention, possibly because it has been the unspoken Fox News law that nobody shalt mention dat, or possibly simply because they are both extremely stupid and at least one of them is armpit-deep in The Cocaine. In any event, to believe that conducting typical and, aside from the eyebrow-raising conclusions it reached, entirely unremarkable opposition research on major political candidates, in this case by hiring a group of ex-Wall Street Journalites that in turn hired a British firm to investigate Damn Odd Things that one particularly seedy-seeming candidate appeared to be involved with, is the equivalent of "colluding with Russia" or any of the other things that Trey Gowdy, who is fucking stupid, has supposedly charged himself with investigating.

In fact, to even suggest such a thing requires a human being be deeply fucking stupid. Not the usual sort of stupidity, of the sort that politicians regularly stumble into during the course of their day jobs and television, but a deep and fungal stupidity of the sort that cannot be expressed except to stare at a person, then stare at them a bit more, and then comment to your neighbor that that might be the stupidest fucking person you have ever laid eyes on. The kind of stupidity that cannot be brushed aside as a result of The Cocaines, or The Paint Huffies, or The Entire Cabinet Full Of Scotch, but is written in very stupid letters to a person’s very stupid genes.

No, Mr. Gowdy. I swear to the heavens that if you wish me to, I shall present to you a full-size laminated flowchart explaining that conducting opposition research into a presidential candidate's potential ties to international crime figures or Russian intelligence operations is not "colluding" with those Russians, or even slightly similar to it. I will hand-deliver it to any office you wish, and I will laminate it twice if you need me to, and for an added fee of one million dollars or your personal resignation I will personally sit with you and explain why conducting that opposition research into a political candidate—and paying for it—is not the same as accepting the assistance of a hostile foreign government and their espionage efforts against your political opponent. You fucking moron. You unbelievable buffoon. You preternatural jackass. You pointy-headed creme egg in a suit.

On the other hand, we may be badly misreading this situation. Mr. Gowdy may not, in fact, be the stupidest fucking man in Congress. He may not be an uncomprehending empty mind vacuously agreeing with whatever the latest Hookers and Blow Forever Fox News stooge has poured into his eager ear on any given moment. He may instead be himself seeking to deflect the impact of any true investigation into how "Russia tried to subvert our democracy" by pretending that those crimes are of no greater import than whether someone, at some point, had previously attempted to find out about them.

Which would be the actions of a traitor to his nation, but not a fool—in which case we would owe Mr. Gowdy a very sincere apology. Our bad, and so forth.

&&&&&

