+++++

Trump's Wish to Strip NBC's License Conflicts with the Ongoing War for Free Speech

2017-10-11

There's nothing I appreciate about Trump's presidency more than his war against the media. Every day is a new smack in the continuous slap fight between the Oval Office and the mainstream media. Like Dr. Ishiro Serizawa from Godzilla I stand on the sidelines, utterly fascinated, muttering "let them fight" as the titanic slugfest plays out before me.
After the mutual boot licking we witnessed for eight years during the Obama administration, it warms my heart to see the media's hubris challenged, mocked, and dismantled by the Oval Office itself. Yes, it sometimes gets overly ridiculous, and maybe even sometimes more than a little embarrassing, but Trump's bloviating has thrown the media on its rear more times than not.
As a result, I've never seen a harder push against the mainstream media occur since the days of Andrew Breitbart, God rest his badass soul.
I don't just throw this praise out lightly. Anyone who knows me, or has followed my work, knows I'm no fan of Trump, but I promised to praise him when he deserved it, and lambast him when he really deserved it.
Today, he really deserves it.
Earlier today, prompted by an NBC report about Trump's desire for a beefier nuclear arsenal, Trump wondered aloud via Twitter if NBC should have its license stripped because of all the fake news they throw at us. While it obviously earned the ire of anyone who was already going to trash him even if he said something along the lines of “I love puppies,” it also ran afoul of the right.
&&&&&

+++++

Weinstein's Wife Splits as Sexual Assault Allegations Continue to Flood In

2017-10-11

Fashion designer and wife of Harvey Weinstein, Georgina Chapman, announced that she's now leaving Weinstein after repeated allegations of sexual assault have landed her soon to be former husband in hot water.
According to People, the couple have been married since 2007 and have two children together. Despite this, Chapman says that Weinstein's actions are “unforgivable,” and that she must look after the privacy of her children.
“My heart breaks for all the women who have suffered tremendous pain because of these unforgivable actions,” Chapman told People. “I have chosen to leave my husband. Caring for my young children is my first priority and I ask the media for privacy at this time.”
Previously, Weinstein was sure his wife would stay by his side, stating that Chapman “stand 100 percent behind me,” and said they both had talked about the allegations at length. Weinstein added that Chapman was helping him become “a better human” and to “apologize to people for my bad behavior, to say I'm sorry, and to absolutely mean it.”
However, People reported that the continuous claims against Weinstein continued to build:
On Tuesday, Gwyneth Paltrow and Angelina Jolie added their own accounts of alleged mistreatment. Paltrow told the NYT that Weinstein sexually harassed her in a hotel room after hiring her for the lead role in Emma when she was 22. The encounter allegedly ended with Weinstein placing his hands on her and suggesting a massage.
The list of things Weinstein is losing is growing as fast as the list of women who are coming forward to claim sexual assault. He lost his job at the Weinstein Company, he's lost the support of many in Hollywood — though too many still stand by him — and now he has lost his wife.

&&&&&


