+++++

HUGE Mac Security Hole Discovered. Update IMMEDIATELY.

2017-11-29

Apple made a terrible mistake with the newest version of macOS High Sierra. Here’s why you need to update your computer today.




FILE – In this April 30, 2015 file photo, Apple CEO Tim Cook responds to a question during a news conference at IBM Watson headquarters, in New York. The dispute over whether Apple must help the FBI hack into a terror suspect’s iPhone is about to play out in a Southern California courtroom. The hearing Tuesday, March 22, in U.S. District Court in Riverside is the first in the battle that has seen Cook and FBI Director James Comey spar over issues of privacy and national security. (AP Photo/Richard Drew, File)

As much as Apple has been making their iPhone line so secure that government needs help breaking in, it’s shocking that Apple could make a mistake this stupid with macOS High Sierra, but they did.

Normally when you change any important settings on your computer, the system will ask you to re-input your password, to ensure nobody has hijacked your computer. But with High Sierra, they messed up. All it takes to break into your settings is, when the prompt appears, to enter the username ‘root’ with no password, and they’re in.

Once in they can change any security settings on your computer, including the ones that control access to unsigned code, which could allow trojans and viruses to be installed.

Update today.

&&&&&

+++++

Donald Trump Retweets Someone Too Shady For Prison Planet

2017-11-29

How bad is it when Alex Jones’s Prison Planet has to warn Donald Trump not to retweet a questionable source? It’s this bad, folks.


Jeff B noticed how bad this has gotten:

 
Jeff B/DDHQ

@EsotericCD
Alex Jones' right-hand man is publicly suggesting that Trump might want to be careful about retweeting out those crazy sources. Yes, this is the world we live in now.

Paul Joseph Watson

@PrisonPlanet
Yeah, someone might want to tell whoever is running Trump's Twitter account this morning that retweeting Britain First is not great optics. 

That’s right, that’s Prison Planet calling out Donald Trump for retweeting Britain First. Britain First is an organization founded by former members of the fascist British National Party. The organization conducts “Christian Patrols” of neighborhoods, who send groups of thugs to invade mosques.

Yes, invade. That’s what they call their own activities. Aggressive activities with the intent of sparking a race war in the streets. They’re so bad, even Alex Jones’s movement doesn’t want to have anything to do with them publicly.

And Donald Trump retweeted them! Sad!

&&&&&

+++++

Will The Supreme Court Bail Out The Patent Trolls?

2017-11-28

Barack Obama’s patent reform was controversial, but it did fight back against patent trolls abusing the courts. Now they’re trying to use the courts to undo that. Will they win?




The Supreme Court in Washington is seen at sunset, Tuesday, Oct. 10, 2017. (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite)

What are patent trolls? Simply, patent trolls are companies that exist purely to leech off of inventive industries. They don’t do anything of value to anyone. They exist solely to game the system and use a never-ending stream of lawsuits in order to cull rents from the system. They abuse loopholes and mistakes in the law, find the most favorable courts in the country, and do so with no gain to anyone but the trolls and lawyers themselves.

Patent trolls were attacked by the America Invents Act, and the law enabled the Patent Office to nullify 19,000 bad patents that had been issued to patent trolls. The Constitution and the law don’t declare patents to be an unlimited right. Rather, patents exist to serve a purpose, and when patents don’t fulfill that aim, we as a people can reasonably shut them down.

The patent trolls, since they literally have nothing better to do than litigate endlessly, are naturally suing, and they’ve made it to the Supreme Court to try to get their fake patents back. The America Invents Act was a compromise bill, and if we lose this part of the compromise, that’s a bad deal for America.


&&&&&

+++++

For Cyber Monday, Let’s End Greedy Internet Taxes

2017-11-27

Monday, Americans go online to buy all the Christmas presents they couldn’t get in local stores. It’s time we ended the threat of greedy Internet taxes.



Photo by Kārlis Dambrāns on Flickr

Right now there’s only one thing holding back the states from reaching halfway across the country, and making out-of-state businesses responsible for collecting sales taxes.

That one thing is the Supreme Court saying that those attempts are unconstitutional.

Enter Anthony Kennedy. He wants some headlines again, and to win friends among tax-and-spend leftists, so he wants to increase taxes on all of us with interstate taxation.

If he gets the chance, and he probably will, he’s going to overturn the case (Quill v. North Dakota) that keeps us from paying taxes on this kind of interstate commerce.

The best way to save us all from this would be for the US Congress to pass a law banning the states from reaching across state lines, and making grandma selling mittens online collect sales taxes for 48 states. That would be a death blow to so much commerce and economic growth online.

America depends on small business, and small business today depends on the Internet. We shouldn’t let greedy, tax-and-spend states wreck that.


&&&&&

+++++

Roy Moore Is Losing In Alabama. Can The GOP Catch Up?

2017-11-20

It’s no longer just a scare: Roy Moore is behind in the Alabama Senate race. Can the Republican Party catch up?




Former Alabama Chief Justice and U.S. Senate candidate Roy Moore, talks to constituents before a Republican Senate candidate forum, Friday, Aug. 4, 2017, in Pelham, Ala. (AP Photo/Brynn Anderson)

Alabama is a great state for the Republican Party. Donald Trump won 62% of the vote, and Richard Shelby beat that at 64%. Republicans won 6 of 7 US House districts. However Roy Moore, like Donald Trump, has a history of underperforming. When George W. Bush got 57% for President, Roy Moore only got 55% for Chief Justice.

In 2012 when Roy Moore ran again for Chief Justice, He only got 52% of the vote. Mitt Romney got 61%. That’s right. Mitt Romney lost the election, but Roy Moore ran far behind him, giving the Democrat a chance to win the office of Chief Justice.

So even though Alabama is usually a sure win for Republicans, it’s less surprising than you think that Roy Moore is now losing. In his last statewide election he only won 52-48, so all it took was a move of a few percentage points to put Doug Jones ahead of him in the Senate race, and technically that’s where the poll average now has him. Jones is up by less than a percentage point, so it’s realistically tied, but by the numbers, Jones is winning and Moore is losing.

It’s hard to see what the Republican Party can do about it, either. Moore won’t quit. Democrat turnout is looking sky high this year. Unless Republicans can find a way to exonerate Roy Moore, or somehow put Donald Trump on the ballot, it’s looking grim for the Alabama Republican Party this year.

&&&&&

+++++

Here’s Why FCC’s Net Neutrality Vote Is Great

2017-11-17

Al Franken and the hard left are outraged at the FCC’s plans to have a Net Neutrality vote, but here’s why it’s actually a great idea.


Here’s a tweet by now-Chairman Ajit Pai about the FCC’s Net Neutrality regulations, back in 2015 when they were a secret plan.

View image on Twitter
View image on Twitter
 
Ajit Pai

@AjitPaiFCC
Here is President Obama's 332-page plan to regulate the Internet. I wish the public could see what's inside.

Look at that. That’s 332 pages of government regulations on the Internet, and it was illegal for Pai to expose them, despite that being “the most transparent administration in history.” That, right there, is how you know it’s a complete lie, when the extreme left-wing claims that “Net Neutrality is just about preserving the Internet” and all that nonsense.

It doesn’t take 332 pages to pass regulations that dictate the way the Internet already worked, and still works. Here’s what it actually does:

This was about using regulatory fiat to overturn the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which legislated that Internet services are different from phone, telegraph, television, and other old technologies. They called this maneuver “Title II Reclassification,” and for years it was held up by the extreme left as their own “nuclear option” for Internet regulation. Title II of the Communications Act applies to 1930s-era technology, instead of the 1996 law which was meant to apply to the Internet, but they declared that the Internet should be regulated under the 30s law instead.

Twice before the far leftists at FCC tried to impose Net Neutrality by regulatory fiat. The first two times they did so in a blatantly illegal way, and both times they got shut down. This third time, the one that won in courts, only won because they got away with Title II Reclassification under the “Chevron deference.” That’s the legal principle used in courts, to say that regulators can interpret the laws they enforce.

They wanted to regulate the Internet, and they found any legal pretext they could get, to do so. Al Franken even admitted it: he wants to control content, websites, everything, under the principle of Net Neutrality, using the powers taken by the “Open Internet Order.”

FCC will repeal that Open Internet Order, and bring the internet back to the regulatory light touch that it grew under for 20 years. We should celebrate that.

&&&&&
