+++++

Over 200 Women In U.S. National Security Sign Open Letter About Sexual Misconduct

2017-11-28

“We, too, are survivors of sexual harassment, assault, and abuse or know others who are,” the letter reads.

Women who have worked in U.S. national security wrote an open letter to their community calling on those in power to help combat sexual harassment and assault in the workplace. 

Published on Tuesday by Time, the open letter was signed by 223 women who serve or have served in the military, diplomatic positions and development organizations.

“We, too, are survivors of sexual harassment, assault, and abuse or know others who are,” the letter reads. 

The letter calls on people and institutions in the national security community to “reduce the incidences of sexual harassment and abuse in the workplace.” To combat sexual harassment, the letter asks people in power in the field to create better channels to report abuse, create better data collection on sexual violence and make employee sexual harassment training and exit interviews mandatory. The 223 women also demanded that the national security community address the “serious gender imbalance” in senior leadership positions.

“This is not just a problem in Hollywood, Silicon Valley, newsrooms or Congress. It is everywhere,” the letter reads. “These abuses are born of imbalances of power and environments that permit such practices while silencing and shaming their survivors.”

In 2016, there were 6,172 sexual assault cases reported in the military alone; it was a record number for sexual assaults reported in one year, which many believe reflects a stronger trust in the system since discussing sexual assault in the military has become part of the mainstream conversation. 

“Many women are held back or driven from this field by men who use their power to assault at one end of the spectrum and perpetuate ― sometimes unconsciously ― environments that silence, demean, belittle or neglect women at the other. Assault is the progression of the same behaviors that permit us to be denigrated, interrupted, shut out, and shut up,” the letter reads. “These behaviors incubate a permissive environment where sexual harassment and assault take hold. And it’s time to make it stop.”

An anonymous survey conducted by the U.S. Department of Defense last year found that 14,900 service members had experienced some kind of sexual assault ― ranging from groping to rape ― in 2016. The same survey revealed that 1 in 3 service members who experienced assault in 2016 chose to report it; 10 years ago, only 1 in 14 chose to report. 

The letter ends with a powerful question: “How will you protect, empower, and defend the women who serve our nation?” 

&&&&&

+++++

Roy Moore Says Sexual Misconduct Allegations Are ‘Simply Dirty Politics’

2017-11-28

The Alabama Senate candidate called the accusations “malicious” and “false.”

Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore made his first public appearance in nearly two weeks amid multiple allegations that he groped, harassed and pursued underage girls in the 1980s. 

During a rally Monday night, Moore again denied all accusations against him to a crowd of around 200 supporters. The Republican candidate said that the allegations are “malicious” and “false attacks,” adding that his family has also been attacked in the process.  

“Just two and a half weeks ago, allegations about sexual misconduct about something that allegedly happened over 40 years old was brought out,” Moore said. “Now, I want to tell you first this hurts me personally because besides my wife and my mother and my only daughter, we have five granddaughters. It hurts to think that people would attack your character like that after 40 years.” 

The 70-year-old, who is a former judge, has been accused of sexually assaulting and harassing teenagers and young women as an adult. 

He added that he understands just how serious these allegations are since he used to serve as a judge and prosecutor. 

“Now just two weeks remaining [in the campaign], pictures of young children, whose names are not mentioned and who I do not know, appear conveniently on the opposition’s ads,” he said. “These allegations are completely false, they’re malicious; specifically, I do not know any of these women nor have I ever engaged in sexual misconduct with anyone.”

Moore referred to the sexual misconduct allegations as “simply dirty politics,” adding that it’s “a sign of the immorality of our time.” Moore’s comments were met with a round of applause. 


&&&&&

+++++

Congresswoman Says Former Congressman Tried To Force Himself On Her In Elevator

2017-11-21

Rep. Diana DeGette says former San Diego Mayor Bob Filner once tried to forcibly kiss her. Former Rep. Donna Edwards also said he behaved inappropriately toward her.

Rep. Diana DeGette (D-Colo.) on Monday accused a former congressman of assaulting her while they were both serving in the House. 

In an appearance on MSNBC’s “Meet the Press Daily,” DeGette said that former Rep. Bob Filner (D-Calif.) at one point tried to pin her in an elevator and forcibly kiss her. 

“Some years ago, I was in an elevator and then-Congressman Bob Filner tried to pin me to the door of the elevator and kiss me. And I pushed him away,” DeGette said. “I mean, I was his colleague. He couldn’t take action against me. And believe you me, I never got in an elevator with him again.”

Filner served in Congress from 1993 to 2012, and in December 2012 became the mayor of San Diego. The following August, he resigned amid allegations of sexual harassment and assault from more than a dozen women. He ultimately pleaded guilty to felony false imprisonment and two misdemeanor counts of battery. In December 2013, he was sentenced to three years probation and three months of home confinement. 

Filner denied DeGette’s accusations, telling The Associated Press that “it never happened.”

DeGette is one of many lawmakers to come forward in recent weeks with allegations of harassment or assault on Capitol Hill. 

Earlier this month, Rep. Jackie Speier (D-Calif.) said she knew of two current members of Congress ― one Democrat and one Republican ― who had sexually harassed staffers. Rep. Barbara Comstock (R-Va.) also said she’d heard rumors of a current congressman who had exposed himself to a young female staffer. Former Rep. Mary Bono (R-Calif.) told The Associated Press that a congressman who is still serving once approached her on the House floor and said he thought about what it would be like to see her shower. 

DeGette is the first lawmaker to name her alleged attacker. 

Speier and Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) introduced legislation last week to improve the sexual harassment reporting process for lawmakers and staffers. The system to report harassment on Capitol Hill is a very convoluted process, which Speier has said is “not a victim-friendly process.” 

DeGette urged female lawmakers who have experienced sexual harassment to name their attackers, especially if they’re still serving in Congress.

“When these advances happen, they’re brushed under the rug,” she said. “But if there are people who are sexual predators in Congress right now, we need to know who they are.”

Former Rep. Donna Edwards (D-Md.), who was in office from 2008 to 2017, told NBC’s Andrea Mitchell on Wednesday that a former congressman from California who went on to become San Diego’s mayor ― a reference to Filner ― behaved inappropriately toward her while she was a member of Congress. Watch a clip of the interview below.  



&&&&&

+++++

Roy Moore May Have Been Banned From A Mall For Harassing Teen Girls In 1980s

2017-11-14

The New Yorker reports that Moore, now a Senate candidate, spent time there “trying to pick up younger girls.”

Roy Moore, now a Republican Senate candidate, was known for “badgering teenage girls” at an Alabama mall in the 1980s, The New Yorker reports. 

Reporter Charles Bethea spoke with over a dozen people who worked or spent time at the Gadsden Mall during that time. They said there were many rumors that Moore was on a list of people banned from the establishment.

Moore has been accused of giving a 14-year-old girl alcohol and touching her inappropriately in 1979, when he was 32 years old, The Washington Post reported last week. Three other women told the publication that Moore pursued them when they were between 16 and 18 years old. On Monday, another woman accused Moore of sexually assaulting her when she was 16. Moore has denied the allegations.

Two of these women say Moore attempted to pick them up when they were at the Gadsden Mall. 

Greg Legat, who worked at the mall in the 1980s, told Bethea that he remembers Moore was banned from the shopping center starting around 1979. Legat recalled that the mall was often “filled” with unchaperoned teens. 

A local police officer, J.D. Thomas, reportedly often asked Legat to keep an eye out for Moore. ”‘If you see Moore here, tell me. I’ll take care of him,’” Legat remembers Thomas telling him, according to The New Yorker. 

Alabama journalist Glynn Wilson reported Sunday that he had heard similar allegations: “Sources tell me Moore was actually banned from the Gadsden Mall and the YMCA for his inappropriate behavior of soliciting sex from young girls.” 

Other people who frequented the mall during the 1980s told The New Yorker they believed Moore had been banned for “trying to pick up younger girls.”

Two police officers who worked in the area at the time also told Bethea that Moore was known for hanging around the mall to find dates.

“The general knowledge at the time when I moved here was that this guy is a lawyer cruising the mall for high-school dates,” one officer said. “I was told by a girl who worked at the mall that he’d been run off from there, from a number of stores. Maybe not legally banned, but run off.” 

Moore, the Gadsden Mall and the Gadsden Police Department did not immediately respond to a request for comment. 


&&&&&


