+++++

With FEMA largely MIA, Chicago woman treks to Puerto Rico to aid her ailing parents

2017-10-17

 
 
Donald Trump’s treatment of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands (you’re president of that too, Donald) has been criminally negligent. As he’s golfed five times in nine days, it’s been civilians like chef José Andrés who are filling the vacuum to assist their fellow Americans. But while his efforts and others are no doubt saving lives, too many people remain in crisis.
The Wall Street Journal profiles Sonia Negrón Bell, who trekked from Chicago to Puerto Rico to aid her ailing parents after her father—normally a subdued man, she says—texted to say that “things are bad here.” Negrón Bell called airline after airline until she found one that would allow her to ship a new generator and supplies, and after arriving on the island, drove hours in treacherous conditions to her parents’ home:
She felt a pang when she saw her parents’ pitch-black two-story house. The homes on either side had light from generators. She feared she would find her parents starving or bedridden—or worse.
As soon as Ms. Negrón Bell pulled up, her father appeared in the driveway.
Mr. Bell got out and hugged him. Her mother shuffled slowly out to the porch. “I love you,” she said to Ms. Negrón Bell, who replied, “I love you too.”
Her parents appeared to be holding up—just. It was sweltering inside the house. Pedestal fans stood idle. The refrigerator door was open and inside, it was bare. On the floor were a few buckets partially filled with water.
Ms. Negrón Bell and her husband opened their luggage and began pulling out supplies. They turned on solar-powered lamps and several battery-operated fans. Ms. Negrón Bell made her mother a plate of Vienna sausages and crackers.
“Thank you, Sonia,” Ms. González said. “Thank you.”
According to the town’s mayor, Aguada didn’t see any regular truck shipments with supplies until 12 days after Maria hit. 

“Alejandro De La Campa, the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s federal coordinating officer in Puerto Rico, said the collapse of communication systems on the island made coordination with mayors difficult and some didn’t know they were supposed to retrieve food and water from regional distribution centers,” notes the Wall Street Journal. That may be the case, but FEMA administrator Brock Long seems to have heard one other mayor, San Juan’s Carmen Yulín Cruz, just fine. In fact, he admitted on national television to ignoring her.
Ms. Negrón Bell’s parents said they saw few signs of government aid in town. Mr. Negrón couldn’t leave the neighborhood because trees blocked roadways. After city workers cleared debris several days after the storm, he drove to a supermarket but found no water or nonperishable food. The couple ate mostly rice cooked on a gas stove and an occasional egg from one of the chickens in the backyard.
The biggest challenge has been the hunt for water—to drink, clean clothes and bathe themselves with a cup and pail. Each day, Mr. Negrón drives across town to a spring on a hillside, where long lines of people wait to fill buckets and lug them home.
Last Saturday morning, Ms. Negrón Bell set out with her husband to find water and ice to cool her father’s glaucoma medication, which must be chilled. They stopped by a supermarket, without luck. A while later, they discovered a large water tank that had been deposited by a truck on the side of a road, and got in line to fill three buckets.
She was relieved to have obtained another day’s supply. “This is basically what you do here,” she said, in the absence of phone and internet service. “You drive around, and when you see something, you stop.”
While Negrón Bell’s supplies were an immediate relief, the generator she brought from the mainland appears to have faltered, which means her parents’ fridge won’t work, leaving her dad’s medication is at risk. It’s a reminder of the urgent need to put Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands—which has received obscenely little media attention—back on the path to recovery. Rather than threatening to pull FEMA from the ground, the president of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands should put down the golf clubs, take a cue from the chef, and get to fucking work.

&&&&&



+++++

Google Doodle honors the late Mexican-American superstar Selena

2017-10-17


 
 
Google is honoring the memory of the late Mexican-American superstar Selena Quintanilla Perez in her first-ever Doodle, which also launched on the 28th anniversary of her first solo album’s debut. Having sung almost exclusively in Spanish throughout her childhood and later youth, the 23-year-old was on the cusp of crossover stardom when she was shot and killed in 1995. Despite the fact that Selena has been gone for more than 22 years, her music and spirit have never left. Mexican-Americans, in particular, see her as one of their own, a hometown girl who never forgot or felt ashamed of her roots, and to honor her is to honor them:
"I grew up as the daughter of a Mexican immigrant single mom living in a small (primarily white) town outside of Fort Worth, Texas," Perla Campos, Global Marketing Lead for Google Doodles and project manager for the Selena Quintanilla Google Doodle told Billboard in an exclusive interview. "There were always two women who taught me I could do anything and be anything I set my mind to: my mom and Selena. Selena has been a part of my life for as long as I can remember."
“She was the girl next door,” tweeted Mexican-American actor and comic Cristela Alonzo, who was the first Latina to create, produce, write, and star in her own U.S. television network show. “We knew and still know women like Selena.”

According to Billboard, Campos and her department spent two years working “tirelessly with the designers, animators, and, most importantly, Quintanilla's family, to ensure the Doodle told the iconic singer's story in a way that reflected the spirit of being a cross-over star.” Suzette Quintanilla, Selena’s sister and bandmate, said “the little details” she gave to the team were reflected in the video promoting the Doodle. “That Selena had red nail polish on instead of bright pink. That she had hoop earrings. They even put red on the microphone the way she used to have it."
Selena was in the midst of recording her first English-language album when she was killed. In her home town of Corpus Christi, Texas, an estimated 30,000 fans lined up for hours to pay their final respects at her memorial. When Dreaming of You was released just months later, she made history as the first Latina to debut at No. 1 of the Billboard albums chart, and since then has sold more than 60 million albums worldwide, keeping her spirit and legend alive.
“What I loved about Selena was that she didn’t seem to try to be someone she wasn’t and not only was that OK, it was welcomed,” Alonzo continued in her tweets. “I can't tell you how much love [and] respect it gave me when I could see a real person like her with heart represent me. [It] made me feel like I mattered. Do you know how much power a simple story like that has to people that never see themselves represented? Selena did it.”
"Selena was always about transcending boundaries,” Campos said, “and for someone who has such a powerful story to be featured on the homepage of Google—a search engine that connects people the way she connected people—that is such a beautiful thing.”
&&&&&
