+++++

Sessions Confounds Critics By Aiding Murder Prosecution In LGBTQ Case

2017-10-16

Attorney General Jeff Sessions has sent a civil rights attorney from the Justice Department to help argue a murder case against the accused killer of a gender fluid teen in Iowa,  The New York Times reported.
Sessions “personally initiated” the plan to have Justice Department attorney Christopher Perras, a hate-crimes expert, serve as a county prosecutor, the Times reported. Perras will help press the case against accused killer Jorge “Lumni” Sanders-Galvez, according to court documents filed Friday and reported by both the Times and the Des Moines Register.
Sanders-Galvez, 22, was charged with first-degree murder in the March 2016 shooting death of 16-year-old Kedarie Johnson. Johnson, who identified as both female and male, was characterized as gender fluid rather than transgender by the Des Moines Register. 
Des Moines County Attorney Amy Beavers told the Iowa newspaper that federal authorities are investigating the case as a potential federal hate crime. They want a representative for “seamless prosecution, should an indictment in federal court be handed down,” she said.
Sessions, a former Alabama senator, has a reputation as a die-hard conservative and has battled against LGBTQ rights. The attorney general sparked the ire of the LGBTQ community and supporters earlier this month when he said transgender workers are not protected from discrimination under federal law, and religious employers can refuse to hire workers whose behavior is contrary to their faith. The Justice Department also rolled back the Obama administration policy encouraging public schools to allow transgender students to use the bathrooms that match their gender identity.  
Despite his controversial stances, Sessions told federal prosecutors at a hate-crimes meeting held by the Justice Department in June that he was concerned about a “spate of murders around the country of transgender individuals.” He said he had directed his Civil Rights Division to “identify ways the department can support state and local law enforcement authorities investigating these incidents.”
Sessions added: “We have and will continue to enforce hate crime laws aggressively and appropriately where transgendered individuals are victims.”
Justice Department spokesman Devin O’Malley told the Times that sending a federal prosecutor to Iowa was “just one example of the attorney general’s commitment to enforcing the laws enacted by Congress and to protecting the civil rights of all individuals.”
Sharon McGowan, Lambda Legal director of strategy, called Sessions’ move a “publicity stunt” and “the height of cynicism.”
“No one in the Trump administration has done more to harm LGBT people, and especially transgender people, than Jeff Sessions ― and in a government chock full of anti-LGBT appointees, that is saying a lot,” McGowan said in a statement. She added: “For Sessions now to seek credit for helping prosecute hate crimes against transgender people is akin to him handing out gasoline and matches and then looking for a pat on the back when he prosecutes someone for committing arson.”
The Iowa murder trial is set to begin Oct. 24 in Henry County District Court in Mount Pleasant.

&&&&&

+++++

Nancy Pelosi: This Was The Week Donald Trump ‘Went Rogue’

2017-10-16

 President Donald Trump crossed a line last week and finally “went rogue,” said Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.). She blasted him for taking a blowtorch to health care, equal protection for women and the Iran nuclear deal.
“This week, the week of Friday the 13th, is the week that President Trump went rogue,” Pelosi, the House Democratic leader, said in an interview Sunday on ABC’s “This Week.” “He went rogue on women’s health in particular, the Affordable Care Act, the Iran decision that he made. And  he continues his war on the middle class with his unfair tax plan.”
Pelosi focused her remarks on Obamacare, Trump jettisoned the Obama administration mandate requiring employers to provide birth control coverage in workers’ health insurance plans. He issued a new rule that allows employers to refuse to do so on religious or moral grounds.
On Thursday, Trump announced he was ending federal subsidies to insurers serving the lowest-income Americans on Obamacare insurance exchanges. Almost 6 million people qualified for the subsidies when they enrolled this year, according to government data. Trump also weakened requirements that insurance plans cover pre-existing conditions and essentials like maternity care, and opened the door for insurance companies to sell plans across state lines. The changes are likely to roil the market with major impacts on costs and benefits.
“It’s going to hurt kids. It’s going to hurt families. It’s going to hurt individuals. It’s going to hurt people with mental health issues. It’s going to hurt veterans,” said Pelosi. “It’s going to hurt everybody.”
The changes in Obamacare, which face court challenges, appeared to be in part an attempt by Trump to force Congress — including Democrats — to succumb to his demands to scuttle the Affordable Care Act or drastically pare it down. Trump tweeted that Dems “must get smart and deal!” Asked if Democrats were ready to negotiate with Trump, Pelosi responded: “I think we’re a little far down the road for that.” Trump “says repeal and replace,” Pelosi said. “Where is the replace? We haven’t seen anything.”
She slammed the “wholesale chaos that he’s inflicting on the system” and said Trump either “doesn’t know” the havoc he’s wreaking — or “he doesn’t care.”
“What he’s doing is hurting the American people,” she added. “This isn’t about policy or politics. It’s about the American people.”
Trump’s former White House strategist Steve Bannon said Saturday that Trump cut Obamacare subsidies to deliberately destroy the health care program.

&&&&&












