+++++

WashPost/ABC Poll Asks if Trump ‘Committed a Crime’

2017-11-02

A new Washington Post/ABC News poll released Thursday afternoon asked respondents to convict President Trump of an unknown “crime” in relation to Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation. The leading question found “49 percent think it is likely Trump himself committed a crime in connection with possible Russian attempts to influence the election,” though most admitted that “this view is based on suspicion rather than hard evidence.”

“Do you think it’s likely or unlikely that Trump himself committed a crime in connection with possible Russian attempts to influence the election? (IF LIKELY) Do you think there's been solid evidence of that, or is it your suspicion only?,” the survey asked. Of the 49 percent that thought it was “likely,” only 19 percent thought there was “solid evidence” to back up the charge, while 30 percent confessed that their opinion was founded on “suspicion only.”

<<< Please support MRC's NewsBusters team with a tax-deductible contribution today. >>>

DONATE
Forty-four percent of respondents thought it was “unlikely” that the President “committed [a] crime.” Seven percent had no opinion on the matter.

It’s not that surprising that the Post and ABC would be able to get nearly half of Americans to agree with the premise that Trump was guilty of a crime regarding alleged Russian collusion in the 2016 election. After all, the Big Three network evening newscasts have spent over a thousand minutes of air time promoting that narrative since the day the President was sworn into office – despite a complete lack of evidence.   

The pattern is all too familiar. The liberal media spend 10 months insinuating that Trump must be guilty of some criminal conspiracy with Russia to steal the 2016 election, then they ask their viewers and readers to repeat back what they’ve been told every day for nearly a year. Garbage in, garbage out.

The Post write-up of the poll began by triumphantly proclaiming:

More than twice as many Americans approve as disapprove of special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s investigation of possible coordination between Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign and the Russian government, a new Washington Post-ABC News poll finds, indicating that the conservative effort to discredit the probe has fallen flat as the case has progressed toward its first public charges.
A significant portion of the article was devoted to dispelling the “conservative” narrative about the investigation:

The president and his surrogates have long sought to raise questions about the credibility of Mueller and his team. In the summer, they focused on the people Mueller was hiring, noting that many had donated to Democratic political candidates and Trump’s opponent in the presidential election, Hillary Clinton.

Trump at that time called the probe the “single greatest WITCH HUNT in American political history,” adding that it was “led by some very bad and conflicted people!”

More recently, Trump and his allies, buoyed by conservative media, have tried to point attention toward the Clinton campaign’s role in funding the production of a salacious dossier about Trump — which was prepared by a former British spy who got information from Russian sources. The special counsel has explored some of the allegations in the dossier.

Conservatives have also sought to highlight Clinton’s alleged role in approving the sale of a Canadian company with mining rights in the United States to Russian’s nuclear energy agency.

&&&&&

+++++

After NYC Attack, NBC Fears Muslims ‘Again Brace for Backlash’

2017-11-01

Just like clockwork, following Tuesday’s ISIS-inspired terrorist attack in New York City, the liberal media quickly painted American Muslims as the real victims. In a story published on NBCNews.com just hours after a jihadist used a rental truck to kill eight people and injure twelve others in lower Manhattan, reporter Chris Fuchs warned: “In the wake of Tuesday’s attack, some Muslim Americans and community leaders expressed concerns over how their religion would be perceived and whether Muslims would become targets of violence.”

The report quoted New Jersey doctor Umer Ahmad fretting: “My initial reaction was, obviously, concern and shock over what happened. And then, basically, I was wondering if it was a Muslim who did it....My biggest concern is that he's readily identified as a Muslim and then that is extrapolated out to my own faith.”

Muslim Democratic Club of New York board member Ali Najmi voiced similar concerns to NBC: “There has been a history of, sort of, blowback, and that’s obviously going to be something that people think about.”

The piece went on: “Ahmad, the physician, said he worried about backlash every time an attack like Tuesday's happens. But ‘I feel I'm more worried about what the response from political leadership would be,’ he said.”

Wrapping up the article, Fuchs again turned to Ahmad, who declared: “Get to know a Muslim in your community, and maybe then you might have a different opinion.” The assumption being that Americans have an anti-Muslim prejudice.

Before even knowing the identities of the actual victims of the attack, NBC was already sympathizing with the Muslim community about an imagined “backlash” that they may or may not encounter. Perhaps the suffering families of the dead and wounded should be the focus on a day of such brutal violence.

&&&&&

+++++

Nets Gave Trump Trashing 10 Times More Coverage Than NFL Backing Down

2017-10-11

When President Trump voiced his opposition to NFL players disrespecting the National Anthem in September, the broadcast networks went wild with an avalanche of coverage that hailed a “firestorm of resistance” against the President and even suggested Trump was a racist. However, when NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell came out on Tuesday to demand that all players stand for the Anthem, the networks could only manage a few minutes on the story.  

Between Tuesday’s evening newscasts and Wednesday’s morning shows, ABC, NBC, and CBS only offered a total of 6 minutes, 10 seconds of coverage. ABC’s World News Tonight and Good Morning America offered the largest amount of combined coverage, with 2 minutes, 47 seconds. NBC came in second, with combined Nightly News and Today show coverage amounting to 2 minutes, 31 seconds. Finally, CBS Evening News and CBS This Morning combined were only able to offer 52 seconds of coverage.



For comparison purposes, on Monday September 25 (the first weekday after Trump's remarks about the NFL), NBC churned out 13 minutes, 52 seconds of coverage; CBS spent 16 minutes, 13 seconds; while ABC devoted a whopping 32 minutes, 53 seconds of airtime to the controversy.

Add it all up, and the network morning and evening news shows that day spent more than an hour (62 minutes, 58 seconds) on the NFL story – 10 times more coverage than they spent last night and this morning on the news of what Today co-host Matt Lauer begrudgingly admitted was Trump’s “victory.”

In the first two days of weekday coverage following Trump’s September 22 NFL comments, the networks devoted an astounding 92 minutes of airtime to the controversy while only offering 25 minutes on the humanitarian crisis in Puerto Rico following Hurricane Maria.

&&&&&

+++++

Rachel Maddow Praises ‘Favorite Republican’ Nicolle Wallace

2017-10-04

Writing a gushing profile of fellow MSNBC anchor Nicolle Wallace for Variety’s New Power of New York list on Tuesday, the network’s left-wing primetime host Rachel Maddow explained why Wallace was her “favorite Republican.”

“The country is still bewildered today by the transformation of the swaggering but stalwart conservative GOP of the Bush-Cheney era in less than a decade into the braying, cursing, handsy, brazenly corrupt know-nothingism we’re living through now,” Maddow ranted in the piece. She then praised Wallace for being one of the “few Republicans who operated at the highest level of Republican presidential politics who saw that transformation coming.”

The committed leftist even laughably proclaimed: “Nicolle is a deep-red Republican, and a loyal conservative, but she’s a patriot first, second and third.”

The “deep-red Republican” recently accused the GOP of lacking a “conscience” or “soul.” The “loyal conservative” has a history of bashing conservatives like Ted Cruz and Sarah Palin.

No wonder why she’s Maddow’s “favorite Republican.”


&&&&&

+++++

NBC Reporter Wanted to Throw Up After Trump Won

2017-09-13

“The room goes wavy. My stomach churns. I can feel the bile in the back of my throat.” That reaction to Donald Trump winning the 2016 election didn’t come from Hillary Clinton’s new memoir, it came from the pages of NBC correspondent and MSNBC anchor Katy Tur’s book about covering the campaign.

The Hill’s Joe Concha read through a copy of Unbelievable, in which Tur bemoaned Trump’s victory: “I’ve heard him insult a war hero, brag about grabbing women by the pussy, denigrate the judicial system, demonize immigrants, fight with the pope, doubt the democratic process, advocate torture and war crimes, tout the size of his junk in a presidential debate, trash the media, and endanger my life.”

Appearing on Tuesday’s Today show to hawk the book, Tur similarly described how “jarring” and “scary” it was when Trump would criticize her biased coverage during campaign stump speeches. “We had to have armed security,” she hyped.

Beyond recalling her nausea, Tur also pushed her bizarre fear that Trump would become a lifetime dictator: “Does anyone really believe he’ll respect term limits? I have a vision of myself at sixty, Trump at a hundred, in some midwestern convention hall. The children of his 2016 supporters are spitting on me.”

After expressing her loathing of the President in such detail, does anyone really believe Tur can be an objective journalist?

&&&&&

+++++

Here’s What Politico Thinks of Texas Storm Victims

2017-08-30

In an unbelievably classless move, Politico tweeted out the latest political cartoon from illustrator Matt Wuerker that actually mocked Texas victims of Hurricane Harvey, portraying them as Confederate sympathizers who want to secede from the United States.

In addition, the Politico cartoonist thought it appropriate to deride people’s faith as well, with a man dressed in a Confederate flag t-shirt being rescued from his rooftop and declaring: “Angels! Sent by God!” A Coast Guard pilot was shown correcting him: “Er, actually Coast Guard...sent by the government.”  

Update: Politico has deleted the tweet, but the offensive cartoon remains posted to its website. For his part, Wuerker has taken to Twitter in a desperate attempt to excuse his insensitive depiction of the deadly natural disaster. "Just trying to point out times like this we're lucky to have rescue services. Don't see how this takes away from private individuals heroism," he feebly explained. Moments later, he claimed: "Respectfully -- it's making fun of the Secessionist movement. Not at all aimed at all Texans."


&&&&&