+++++

Myra Adams: The Antidote For Anxiety In A Crisis-Filled World

2017-10-16

Everyone is feeling anxious these days due to a continuous stream of catastrophic events and disasters both natural and man-made. Moreover, threats of world war, cyber attacks and terrorism coupled with an eroding trust in leadership result in a 24/7 crisis mode as the “new normal.”

Leaping from one breaking news alert to the next reminds me of that “whack-a-mole” arcade game when toy moles randomly pop-up faster than you can slam them with a rubber mallet. After a few rounds of fierce action, the game frays your nerves. But, unlike whack-a-mole, we can’t just whack and walk away from endless crises because there are no safe places to hide.

Over the last few years, concert venues, movie theaters, nightclubs, sporting events, shopping areas, public transportation, airplanes, office buildings, sidewalks, places of worship, college campuses and even elementary schools have been the scene of attacks. All that raises the question, “Where does one find comfort when our nation and the world appears to be spinning out of control?”

People with faith in the Lord already know the answer. However, if you are not among that group, here is a simple remedy that will quickly inject some order and calm into your heart and soul – read Psalm 91.

Even those who have never opened a Bible or are turned-off by “religion” will appreciate Psalm 91’s 16 short verses of magnificent poetry. The book of Psalms, composed of 150 prayers of praise, is a revered chapter in the Old Testament – sometimes referred to as the Hebrew Bible or Hebrew Scriptures.

Full disclosure: I am a newcomer to the beauty and power of Psalm 91. Only in September, as Hurricane Irma approached our home state of Florida, was it brought to my attention when many friends and associates were praying and reciting Psalm 91 while walking their homes and property.

After the hurricane passed, I heard many remarkable and inspiring stories about Psalm 91’s protective powers among the faithful, including from numerous colleagues at my husband’s Protestant / Catholic international charity. Subsequently, I learned how this ancient prayer had a long history of comforting those in danger. Then I recognized that a wider, secular audience could benefit from an introduction to Psalm 91 as an antidote for anxiety and uncertainty in these troubled times – with no prescription needed!

Furthermore, beyond its poetic verses, I discovered that Psalm 91 is an offer by God to “make a deal” with anyone who enters into a “contract” with Him. But, like with all deals, before “signing,” the terms must be revealed.

The foundation of God’s Psalm 91 “contract” is His offer to protect you from various dangers listed below in order of appearance.

“Save you from the fowler’s snare” (trap).
“From the deadly pestilence.”
From “the terror of night.”
From the “arrow that flies by day.”
“Pestilence that stalks in the darkness.”
“Plague that destroys at midday.”
Protection from “ten thousand” (enemies) “at your right hand.”
From “harm” that could “overtake you.”
Ensuring that “no disaster will come near your tent.”
Protection from and triumph over the “great lion and serpent.”
Along with God’s extensive offer of protection, He proclaims His enforcement plan in verses 11-12:

For He will give His angels charge concerning you,
To guard you in all your ways
They will bear you up in their hands,
That you do not strike your foot against a stone.

Sound like a great deal so far. God will protect us from danger, and His angels are charged to act as our guards. Then, in Psalm 91’s last four phrases, God concludes His offer revealing His unique promise to anyone who signs the “contract” by declaring:

I will be with him in trouble,
I will deliver him and honor him.
With long life I will satisfy him
and show him my salvation.

God’s offer with his promise of protection and enforcement is now “on the table,” and the “deal” tilts in our favor. What comes to mind is that iconic cliché from “The Godfather” – except it’s the real Godfather “making you an offer you can’t refuse.”

What does God the Father expect from you in return? He wants you to accept His “invitation” to come to Him, stay with Him, believe in Him, and above all, trust in Him as written in the opening two verses of Psalm 91:

Whoever dwells in the shelter of the Most High
will rest in the shadow of the Almighty.
I will say of the Lord, “He is my refuge and my fortress,
my God, in whom I trust.”

The benefits of accepting God’s invitation are found in verse 14 and part of 15:

Because he loves me,” says the Lord, “I will rescue him;
I will protect him, for he acknowledges my name.
He will call on me, and I will answer him;

For those reading about Psalm 91 for the first time, wherever you are in your faith walk or not walking at all, if Psalm 91 inspires you, follow God’s simple instructions from verse 15: “He will call on me, and I will answer him.”

Call on Him now – or later, but trust that He will answer.

Finally, to all God’s people, renew your relationship with Psalm 91. Unleash its power of protection and promise! Let Psalm 91 be your refuge from this endless “whack-a-mole” world in crisis.

&&&&&

+++++

Myra Adams: Will 2018 Midterms Spark Civil War? – Watch Out, If Democrats Gain Control, Impeachment Proceedings Could Begin

2017-09-30

Jesus rarely gets the credit, but He said it first: “If a kingdom is divided against itself, it cannot stand. If a house is divided against itself, it cannot stand.” (Mark 3:24-25)

But most often that Bible passage is attributed to Abraham Lincoln. The year was 1858, and, as a candidate for the U.S. Senate, Lincoln said, “A house divided against itself cannot stand. I believe this government cannot endure, permanently half slave and half free.”

Lincoln lost that Senate election, but two years later, on Nov. 6, 1860, he was elected the 16th president of the United States. Then on April 12, 1861, the “house divided” could no longer stand, and the Civil War officially began.

Fast forward 156 years and national division is the worst I have seen in my lifetime. (My reference point is having lived through the ’60s and ’70s.) The difference between then and now is that permanent division has crept into and corroded every segment of our society, culture, government, the military, media, law, the economy, healthcare, education, race relations, sports, religion, and entertainment.

Politics has evolved not only into a red-state vs. blue-state minefield, but the two major parties are internally fractured beyond repair – leaving Democrats sparring with their far-left comrades and Republicans divided by those farther to the right. Meanwhile, the prevailing attitude of “you are with us or against us” has resulted in the near-extinction of moderates. Compromise is now considered an evil, almost traitorous act.

That leads us to the overused word, “polarization” – a common, polite, acceptable term used to describe the Fractured States of America. However, what everyone on all sides of the political spectrum instinctively knows, but is afraid to admit, is that simmering under the surface, pressure is building – volcanic like pressure that could inevitably lead to a politically cataclysmic event or series of events that bursts the bubble of civility, and all hell will break loose.

This week, I read a New Yorker piece with the headline, “Is America Headed for a New Kind of Civil War?” written by Robin Wright.

While attempting to answer the title question, Wright had a disturbing conversation with national security expert Keith Mines, writing, “He returned to Washington after 16 years to find conditions that he had seen nurture conflict abroad now visible at home. It haunts him.”

Mines, believing that Civil War levels of anger are prevalent today in the U.S., told Wright, “It is like 1859, everyone is mad about something, and everyone has a gun.”

Mines’ quote got me thinking about a political event that could potentially lead to Civil War type rage – the midterm elections – scheduled for Nov. 6, 2018.

If, (and that is a big if, but not improbable) Democrats win the 24 seats needed to gain back control of the House of Representatives, there is wide speculation that they are likely to begin impeachment proceedings against President Trump.

Furthermore, we could expect even darker war clouds and maybe even an impeachment conviction if Democrats also win control of the Senate. (Again, takeover not likely, but if so, two-thirds of the Senate must vote to convict. But always remember nothing is impossible in politics, and always expect the unexpected.)

At the very least, as I wrote back in May, Democrats are likely to use impeachment as a fundraising tool and a get-out-the-vote message because it is an easy emotional pitch for Democratic candidates to say, “Trump, you’re fired,” or “You vote, we impeach.”

But one congressman can’t wait! As reported this week in The Hill:

“Call for Trump impeachment puts pressure on top Dems”

The first two paragraphs read:

Rep. Al Green (D-Texas) on Tuesday threatened to force a House floor vote next week on impeaching President Trump, creating a new dilemma for his party’s leaders.

Green said he would file an impeachment resolution next week while condemning Trump’s attacks on NFL players who have kneeled during the national anthem to protest police brutality.
Certainly, the bar for what constitutes an impeachable offense has been lowered.

So now it’s time to quote Roger Stone on this incendiary issue.

Regardless of what one thinks of the GOP strategist’s antics, the long-time Trump confidant is an expert on American politics, past, present, and future. (Stone famously helped convince Trump that he should run for president in 2016 because he could win over an angry electorate.)

With that in mind, on Sept. 15, a Washington Post analysis column called “Monkey Cage” ran the headline:

“Roger Stone says there would be an ‘insurrection’ if Trump were impeached. Is he right?”

The analysis began:

In a recent interview with TMZ, President Trump’s confidant Roger Stone was asked about the prospect of the president’s impeachment, a topic that has occasionally arisen in recent months. ‘You will have a spasm of violence in this country, an insurrection like you’ve never seen,’ Stone responded. ‘The people will not stand for impeachment. A politician that votes for it would be endangering their own life.’”
Sure, Roger Stone is known for using colorful words and phrases, and sometimes he exaggerates for effect in media interviews. But Stone’s TMZ quotes have some merit because the mainstream media have little understanding how strongly Trump supporters would stand by their man if he were impeached.

For example, this week I chatted with my Trump-supporting neighbor who is a retired, worldly gentleman. When I asked if he still supported Trump, he gleefully replied, “I love Trump more every day because he is standing up and defending America.”

That’s precisely why I agree with Stone’s assessment that Trump’s impeachment would trigger a “spasm of violence” given that Trump lovers love America and love that Trump loves America – and would gladly defend both.

All we know for sure is that the 2018 midterm elections and its aftermath have the potential to be unlike any other. Our “divided house” stands on unstable ground, and only with God’s help will it stand strong.

&&&&&

+++++

Fox News Debuts New Series “OBJECTified” Hosted By Harvey Levin On Sunday, Sept. 17th At 8PM/ET

2017-10-06

Premiere Episode to Spotlight Judge Judy  

RedState readers might want to check out this new entertainment series from FOX News Channel. Could this be a new direction for FOX News?

NEW YORK – September 6, 2017 – FOX News Channel (FNC) will premiere OBJECTified, a brand new series hosted by TMZ’s Harvey Levin, on Sunday, September 17th at 8PM/ET. Kicking off the season debut, the entertainment program will spotlight America’s Judge, Judge Judy Sheindlin, sharing her most prized possessions in her Greenwich, Connecticut home.

Each week, Levin will showcase an intimate interview with a high-profile newsmaker or celebrity, who will tell their life story through certain objects they have chosen to keep close over the years.  The objects become jumping points in understanding how certain experiences shaped them into who they are today.

The 10 episode series will continue in primetime on Sundays, airing at 8PM/ET. Upcoming shows will feature: Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu; former California governor and Hollywood star Arnold Schwarzenegger; businesswoman and television personality Martha Stewart; entertainment entrepreneur and actor Tyler Perry; and Dallas Mavericks owner and investor Mark Cuban, in addition to other notable guests.

OBJECTified is produced by Harvey Levin Productions, Inc. in association with Telepictures and distributed by Warner Bros. Domestic Television Distribution. Harvey Levin and Ryan Regan serve as the program’s executive producers, alongside John Finley, FNC’s Senior Vice President of Development and Production.

FOX News Channel (FNC) is a 24-hour all-encompassing news service dedicated to delivering breaking news as well as political and business news. The number one network in cable, FNC has been the most watched television news channel for more than 15 years and according to a Suffolk University/USA Today poll, is the most trusted television news source in the country. Owned by 21st Century Fox, FNC is available in more than 90 million homes and dominates the cable news landscape, routinely notching the top ten programs in the genre.

&&&&&

+++++

Who Knew? Pastor Hillary’s True Desire Is To Preach, Just In Time For Her New Book

2017-08-10

Op-ed views and opinions expressed are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent the views of BizPac Review.

The first I heard of it was when my husband yelled from the living room, “You are not going to believe this,” and he was right. And I still don’t believe that “Hillary Wants to Preach.” Yes, THAT Hillary who, according to the widely ridiculed piece in the Atlantic by Emma Green, reveals Hillary Clinton’s “fondest ambition is teaching scripture in church.”

Green’s premise is based on her interview with Bill Shillady about his forthcoming book of devotionals, “Strong for a Moment Like This.” Shillady is Hillary Clinton’s “longtime pastor” who leads the United Methodist City Society in New York.

Stop right there. Who knew Clinton had a “longtime pastor”? We knew she had a yoga instructor who sent her routines that comprised some of the 33,000 deleted personal emails from her private server  —  but there was never any mention of emails with Bible-based wisdom from her pastor.

One can only imagine that Shillady’s version of the Ten Commandments is labeled the “Nine Suggestions,” and excludes number nine of the original ten, “Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor.” But who am I to judge how Shillady shepherds his flock.

The surprising fact behind Shillady’s devotional book is that Hillary Clinton suggested the idea based on the daily devotionals Shillady sent her at the beginning of her presidential campaign in 2015.

Here is my favorite paragraph in Green’s outrageous puff piece that completely ignores the real-life character and political actions of Hillary, the devout would-be-preacher:

Strong for a Moment Like This suggests Clinton was thinking about biblical themes throughout 2015 and 2016, as well. The title is drawn from the Book of Esther, which tells the story of a young woman who must stand up to corrupt political figures in order to save her people.
If Clinton was “thinking about biblical themes” during her campaign it must have been about how to eviscerate policies relevant to those “themes” with the goal of generating support among the non-religious, and especially female voters.

Take for example an excerpt from Clinton’s speech given at the Women of the World Summit on April 23, 2015, just days after officially declaring her presidential ambitions on April 12. In what was interpreted and widely reported in conservative media as a declaration of war on religious Americans, Clinton said about abortion, “deep-seated cultural codes, religious beliefs, and structural biases have to be changed” for the sake of giving women access to “reproductive health care and safe childbirth.”

Maybe Shillady’s book will highlight the scripture passage he sent to Hillary that day? However, Green, while detailing Hillary’s lifelong faith and her newly revealed longing for preaching the Word of God, neglected to mention that memorable 2015 speech and the anti-religious tone it set for Clinton’s entire presidential campaign.

Not surprising, Green writes that during the campaign, “nearly half of Americans described Clinton as not very or at all religious or said they didn’t know what her religion was.”  Wrong!  Most Americas believed that the first commandment of Clinton’s religious faith was to seek, win and wield power. That opinion morphs into fact after reading, “Shattered, Inside Hillary Clinton’s Doomed Campaign,” by Jonathan Allen and Amie Parnes. The book reveals that months of valuable staff time was spent trying to justify why Hillary was running for president and what her message was besides, “It’s my turn.”

Furthermore, the only time Americans saw or heard about Hillary attending Sunday services was when she was in African-American churches firming up her base. In fact, Green mentions, “Her campaign declined a speaking invitation at Notre Dame, for example, reasoning that white Catholics weren’t her target audience.” (Ditto for white Protestants even though key battleground Rust Belt states were heavy with both types of religious voters.)

But, if Hillary were a daily devotional reading woman of great faith perhaps Americans would have sensed that in her persona. To that end, Green writes that now, “After long months of struggling to persuade Americans that she is trustworthy, authentic and fundamentally moral, Clinton is lifting up an intimate, closely guarded part of herself.”

Yes she is, and just in time for Hillary’s new book, “What Happened” — her “honest” account of why she is not currently reading the Bible in the Oval Office — scheduled for a fall release and an extensive promotional tour. Coincidentally, Hillary is now beefing up her political action committee, Onward Together, that she founded in May with the catchy slogan, “resist, insist, persist, enlist.”  Maybe “Onward Together” secretly means “with God” and the PAC money raised will be used to start a church?

Which reminds me of a quote from the late Andy Rooney, who for decades dispensed a unique brand of wisdom at the end of each 60 Minutes telecast:

Religion is the last refuge of a scoundrel. Patriotism is next to last.
Am I too cynical about Hillary’s motives? Could it be that at the twilight of her long career, after losing the one title she truly worshiped, Hillary is seeking to trade monetary and political power for the everlasting power of the Word of God?

Only the Lord knows the truth that lies within Hillary Clinton’s heart, and HE stands as the ultimate judge of her character.

&&&&&

+++++

FOX BUSINESS NETWORK IS NUMBER ONE IN BUSINESS DAY VIEWERS FOR THIRD CONSECUTIVE QUARTER, TOPPING RIVAL CNBC

2017-06-28

Recently I started watching Fox Business Network (FBN) because it has less political spin and more fact based news. Then yesterday I received an  FBN press release touting the channel’s latest ratings. Memo to RedStaters: Even if you are not a “Wall Streeter” but more a political junkie, check out FBN and you will be hooked. Here are the highlights from the press release.

FOX BUSINESS NETWORK IS NUMBER ONE IN BUSINESS DAY VIEWERS FOR THIRD CONSECUTIVE QUARTER

Network Sees 47 Percent Boost in Viewership Across 2017

 June Marks FBN’s Eighth Monthly Win over CNBC

 CNBC Delivers 20-Year Low in Business Day Viewers

 NEW YORK – JUNE 27, 2017 — FOX Business Network (FBN) ended the second quarter as the number one rated business network on television, besting rival CNBC, for three consecutive quarters in Business Day viewers. This is the first time FBN has topped CNBC for three back-to-back quarters since the network launched in 2007.

Averaging 173,000 total viewers, FBN saw its Business Day audience grow 35 percent over 2016 for the quarter. Led by strong performances from anchors Stuart Varney, Neil Cavuto, Trish Regan and Liz Claman, FBN’s Business Day came out 8 percent ahead of CNBC’s for the quarter, which had 160,000 total viewers on average. Year to date, FBN is up 47 percent in Business Day viewers, averaging 192,000 total viewers for 2017.

While FBN has been experiencing double digit growth over the course of the past year, CNBC has shown declines in their core Business Day viewership. In the 25-54 demo, CNBC delivered its lowest-rated quarter since 1991, and in total viewers, had its lowest rated quarter in 20 years, dating back to 1997. Additionally, CNBC is the only major news channel showing yearly declines, while all other networks have double-digit gains across the board for the year, notably down 12 percent in Business Day viewers over their performance last year (196,000 total viewers).

&&&&&

+++++

Myra Adams: Kamala Harris – Rage Against The Machine

2017-06-16

For Democrats, a by-product of the Senate Intelligence Committee’s contentious Trump/Russia hearings is that the party’s search for a “fresh face” has ended and California Senator Kamala Harris is the winner.

Now the question remains whether the mouth on the face is a little too “fresh” to “play in Peoria” in 2020.

Donning Republican goggles, let’s dive into the shark-infested presidential pool and swim some laps.

But first, a few facts:

Kamala Harris has served in the U.S. Senate since January 3, 2017. That means she already has more national legislative experience than the current President of the United States and not much less than his predecessor.

By just showing up, Harris is a one woman dream team of racial diversity where among Democrats, white privilege is real and maligned while white skin is so 1950. Her Wikipedia page politically maximizes her mixed ethnicity:

Harris was elected California’s Attorney General in 2010 and re-elected in 2014. She was the first woman, the first Jamaican-American, the first Asian American, the first Indian American, and the first African-American attorney general in California.
Senator Harris’ only diversity flaw is she does not speak Spanish and that was used against her during the 2016 Senate campaign.

At the tender age of 52, Harris qualifies as a “young” Democrat compared to the leading  2020 presidential contenders like Senator Bernie Sanders about to turn age 76, former Vice President Joe Biden who will be celebrating 75 years in November, and Senator Elizabeth Warren who blows out 68 candles on June 22.

Therefore, “young fresh face” must be added to Harris’ fact sheet.

Now let’s move from facts to expectations.

A Google search with the phrase, “Kamala Harris the next Obama” is how Democrats define “expectations.” Here is what popped up:

“Is Kamala Harris the next Obama?”  The Washington Post posed this burning question on January 14, 2015, two years before she was even sworn in as a U.S. senator.

“The Next Obama?  Meet Kamala Harris, California attorney general, aspiring senator….and future president?” asked City Journal (of the Manhattan Institute) in their winter 2016 edition.

“President Kamala Harris? She’s making the first moves,” declares a McClatchy DC bureau headline on May 9, 2017.

“Can Kamala Harris live up to the hype?” — asked The New Republic in a buzz kill headline on January 12, 2017. But finally, someone in the media gets real!

The view through my Republican goggles looks like Democrats will likely have as much success finding the next Obama as Republicans did finding the next Reagan. The past is past.

However, Obama’s meteoric rise from Illinois state senator in 2004 to President-elect in 2008 has led several ambitious U.S. senators from both parties thinking that they can be the “next Obama” before the end of their first term. Then, pile on President Trump, elected with no political experience, and more reasons why neophyte senators are having Oval Office daydreams.

Now enter Kamala Harris, stage left (of course) who arrived from California riding a reputation for viciously attacking conservatives, as exemplified by her aggressive prosecution of those who exposed the trafficking of fetal body parts in her state.

Picking up the sharp glass left by Hillary’s cracking — but not shattering the “glass ceiling” — Harris looks like the Democrat’s computer model of the perfect 2020 presidential candidate. She is a brilliant mixed-race, leftist activist and an Obama disciple (to whom in 2013 Obama embarrassingly called the “best-looking attorney general”) from the nation’s most populous state, otherwise known as a Democrat’s campaign ATM.

Moreover, in six months, Senator Harris has found a unique Washington formula that could fulfill those headline expectations and justify all the hype.

Part one of her formula brands herself as a rude, discourteous, smart-alecky know it all, creating media “YouTube” moments by giving “mean” white male Republican senators — along with high-level Trump officials — her proverbial middle-finger.

Then using her overly aggressive behavior as a platform, part two of Harris’ formula swings into action when she calls out Republican Senate leader’s criticism of her bad behavior “sexist” and uses that criticism as a fundraising message gimmick.

Go Kamala! “Sign me up,” you can just hear all those pink pussy-hatted women’s marchers saying in unison.

Yes, Kamala’s hype has morphed into her brand. Her first major national branding moment was initiated by Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr asking Harris to “…provide the witnesses the courtesy…” as Harris was especially rude while questioning and interrupting Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein on June 7.

Senator Harris promptly turned that “sexist exchange” into a database collection vehicle promoting “Courage not Courtesy” buttons on her campaign website with the message:

Republicans in the Senate think I need to be more “courteous” when it comes to finding the truth and bringing accountability back to our government. I say we all need to be more courageous instead.

For a limited time only, please get your FREE sticker from my campaign today as a way of sending a message that we will not be silenced. We will always fight to get to the truth.
Feeling momentum, once again on June 13, Senator Harris unleashed her rude tactics while questioning Attorney General Jeff Sessions on June 13.

Of course, “Fighting to get to the truth” means we can all look forward to “feminista” Kamala Harris, fighting against mean white guy senators who dare to maintain some level of decorum and respect at Senate hearings during questioning of national leaders.

That is exactly why Kamala Harris is all the rage. She embodies the rage against the machine; the Trump machine, the Republican machine, the white machine, and the men machine. She is ready to fight whatever man or machine in her path on her way to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.

Her big mouth brand plays well in 20-second sound bites. But I ask again, “Will it play in Peoria?”

Donald Trump’s big mouth brand propelled him to the White House, but he also stood for something — personal success, champion of the fed-up masses, and “make America great again.”

What does Kamala Harris stand for besides, “Make Kamala Great?”

Could “Courage not Courtesy” be the message that wins 270 electoral votes in 2020?

I think not, but Republicans need to be on guard. The same media hype that propelled Obama’s two presidential campaigns will be working double overtime for Senator Harris especially now when political rage is all the rage.

&&&&&

+++++

FOX NEWS Jesse Watters Interview With President Trump Airing On March 18

2017-03-14

Jesse Watters of Watters’ World fame goes presidential!

 FOX News Channel’s (FNC) Jesse Watters will sit down with President Donald Trump for an interview to be presented on the March 18th edition of Watters’ World (Saturdays, 8PM/ET). Taking place ahead of the President’s rally in Nashville, TN on March 15th, President Trump will discuss the economy, tax reform, his policy on immigration, replacing the Affordable Care Act, among other topics. This will be President Trump’s first appearance on Watters’ World since being elected.

Will Watters ask President Trump the kind of current events questions that usually stump ordinary people on the street like, “Who is the Vice President?”

Tune in and see for yourself.

&&&&&

+++++

‘Give Trump A Chance’ – Arm Yourself With A Message Battle Plan For A Peaceful Thanksgiving

2016-11-23

Before we begin, headline inspiration credit goes to John Lennon and Yoko Ono for their 1969 anti-war song, “Give Peace a Chance.” But, given the name substitution, I assume Lennon is churning in his grave and will expect an angry e-mail from Yoko Ono.

Speaking of anger, it provides an emotional segue for week three of the continuing anti-Trump post-election national temper tantrum likely to negatively impact the normally peaceful Thanksgiving holiday.

Widespread concern about politically inspired family conflict erupting on Turkey Day is evident when one googles, “Thanksgiving after Trump win.” Numerous pieces are listed, and my favorite is from the  Huffington Post.  It was written the day before the election with a headline suggesting, “Whoever Wins, We Still Need to Cancel Thanksgiving.”

But Thanksgiving will go on even with the inherent danger of polarized families gathering around a table with a prominently placed sharp carving knife and spear fork.

Hence, what follows is a unique battle plan to help families cope with the angry fallout from T-Day election trauma. And, at the end,  Thanksgiving messages from two of our most revered presidents to keep the holiday in historic perspective.

Step One: Just before the Thanksgiving gathering, a prominent family member should be designated “peacemaker” in case of a DEFCON 1 political eruption. Perhaps someone adored by all that no one wants to upset.

Step Two: Firmly enforce the ground rule of “no political talk.” That is the best and easiest way to avoid a kerfuffle. But, after hours of alcohol consumption, football, family gossip, and rich food, that proverbial “crazy uncle” is bound to denigrate Trump, Hillary, or Obama and the real fun begins. Thus the designated peacemaker swings into action and hopefully order is restored.

Plan B: But what if the peacemaker fails and a political family feud ensues? Here are some recommended “calming statements” that could lead to a mature discussion without yelling, name-calling, and incurring stab wounds from turkey carving implements.

“If Trump fails, America fails.”

Although my opinion, I believe it is a somewhat factual statement meant to appeal to the patriotism of anti-Trump family members. Remember the phrase is supposed to be calming, especially when paired with the question, “Do you want America to fail?”

“Who doesn’t want to make America great?”

(Please avoid saying the word again at the end. It makes the question more emotional.)

This question conveys the notion that if Trump succeeds in growing the economy, everyone will reap the rewards. Remind family members of the old cliché, “A rising tide lifts all boats.” For example, let’s say your twenty-something niece detests Trump. Seize the opportunity to discuss how she is likely to personally benefit from an economy that could start to grow at four percent annually. Make it all about her increased potential under the policies of President Trump and not about politics. Say something like, “When America is great, YOU become even greater.”

“All we are saying is give Trump a chance.”

A prime example of Trump post-election media bias are numerous predictions speculating how, when, and why Trump is going to be impeached.

Such “reporting” not only infuriates the 61 million Trump voters but further polarizes an already polarized nation. Hence, convey to your Trump-hating relatives to “give Trump a chance.” Urge them to open their minds to a different kind of leader. A business leader who will inject large doses of economic adrenaline and create a confident, resilient, fast-growing economy from which Americans in every economic strata will benefit. (An economy never achieved under Obama and why Trump was elected.)

The goal of the aforementioned “calming statements” is to foster some rational, non-emotional, self-interest based discussions that will end with family unification hugs.

Thanksgiving proclamations from George Washington and Abe Lincoln.

Finally, politics aside, it is imperative that Americans remember the original reason why we gather together at Thanksgiving and who started the tradition.

On October 3, 1789, President George Washington issued a Thanksgiving proclamation with an opening paragraph that promoted a higher, greater perspective:

Whereas it is the duty of all Nations to acknowledge the providence of Almighty God, to obey his will, to be grateful for his benefits, and humbly to implore his protection and favor– and whereas both Houses of Congress have by their joint Committee requested me to recommend to the People of the United States a day of public thanksgiving and prayer to be observed by acknowledging with grateful hearts the many signal favors of Almighty God especially by affording them an opportunity peaceably to establish a form of government for their safety and happiness.
Then in 1863, at the height of the Civil War, President Abraham Lincoln designated Thanksgiving a national holiday in a magnificent proclamation that today sounds more like a church sermon. Here is the official part:

“… to set apart and observe the last Thursday of November next, as a day of Thanksgiving and Praise to our beneficent Father who dwelleth in the Heavens.”

Now, on Thanksgiving and beyond, because of the contentious election and how we live in times that often feel like our nation and families are engaged in a Civil War, we must give Trump a chance and unite under our new president.

Therefore, in the spirit of Thanksgiving as proclaimed by Washington and Lincoln, praise God, pray and give thanks for our nation, pray for our new leader, and most of all, pray that our nation and families can bind our wounds and begin to heal.

&&&&&