+++++

Former Top Intelligence Chiefs: Trump Being ‘Played’ By Putin

2017-11-12

WASHINGTON ― Two former top U.S. intelligence officials on Sunday denounced President Donald Trump’s repeated refusal to definitively affirm Russian meddling in the 2016 election, saying the president is being manipulated by Russian President Vladimir Putin.

“By not confronting the issue directly, and not acknowledging to Putin that we know that you’re responsible for this, I think he’s giving Putin a pass,” former CIA Director John Brennan told CNN. “And I think it demonstrates to Mr. Putin that Donald Trump can be played by foreign leaders who are going to appeal to his ego and to try to play upon his insecurities, which is very, very worrisome from a national security standpoint.”

James Clapper, former director of national intelligence, during an appearance with Brennan on CNN, warned that Trump’s downplaying of Russia’s involvement in the U.S. election “poses a peril to this country.”

Trump has repeatedly questioned the conclusion of top intelligence agencies that Russia conducted a sophisticated effort to tip last year’s election in Trump’s favor. Trump has shown a fondness for Putin, and his campaign faces multiple investigations into whether it colluded with Russia.

Trump on Saturday reignited the controversy, when reporters asked if he discussed Russian interference with Putin while meeting at the Asia-Pacific summit in Vietnam.

Attacking Brennan and Clapper as “political hacks,” Trump said he sided with Putin’s denials over the conclusion of his own intelligence agencies.

“He said he absolutely did not meddle in our election. He did not do what they are saying he did,” Trump told reporters on Saturday. “Every time he sees me, he says, ‘I didn’t do that,’ and I really believe that when he tells me that, he means it. But he says, ‘I didn’t do that.’”

Trump later attempted to soften those comments, claiming, “I believe very much in our intelligence agencies.”

In response, Brennan said Trump is perhaps being manipulated by Putin.

“I think Mr. Putin is very clever in terms of playing to Mr. Trump’s interest in being flattered,” Brennan said. “And, also, I think Mr. Trump is, for whatever reason, either intimidated by Mr. Putin, afraid of what he could do, or what might come out as a result of these investigations. So, it’s very worrisome. And I think it sends a worrisome, very disturbing signal to our allies and partners who are concerned about Russian interference in their democratic processes as well. So, it’s either naivete, ignorance or fear, in terms of what Mr. Trump is doing vis-a-vis the Russians.”

Asked about the investigations into possible collusion between Trump’s campaign and Russia, Brennan would only say that he had spoken to investigators.

Clapper, before he stepped down from his post, said in January that he could not conclude whether Trump’s campaign colluded. When he made that remark, Clapper said on Sunday, he didn’t know of recent disclosures, including details of a meeting where a Russian lawyer offered Trump’s eldest son “information that would incriminate” Democrat Hillary Clinton, and former Trump campaign adviser George Papadopoulos telling investigators he worked to obtain “dirt” on Clinton from the Russian government.

“The statement I made at the time was true. I had no direct evidence of collusion,” Clapper said Sunday. At the time, he added, “we had lots of concerns, because we were aware of multiple meetings that were going on.”

The new information “raises, I think, circumstantial questions, if nothing else,” he said.

Trump’s treasury secretary, Steve Mnuchin, dismissed the concerns of Clapper and Brennan, and downplayed the issue of Russian interference.

“President Trump is not getting played by anybody,” Mnuchin said later on CNN. “President Trump was focused on some very important issues, which are North Korea and Syria. And those are areas that we need to work together with Russia and get them on board with our strategy.

“I think the country is ready to move on off of this and focus on important issues.”

&&&&&

+++++

White House Responds To Sexual Misconduct Allegations Against Roy Moore

2017-11-10

WASHINGTON ― The White House relayed President Donald Trump’s response late Thursday to bombshell allegations that Alabama GOP Senate nominee Roy Moore sexually molested a 14-year-old girl in 1979.

White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders, traveling with the president on his trip to Asia, told reporters that Trump “believes that we cannot allow a mere allegation ― in this case, one from many years ago ― to destroy a person’s life” but that if the allegations are true, “Judge Moore will do the right thing and step aside.”

A spokesperson for Vice President Mike Pence said the veep “found the allegations in the story disturbing and believes, if true, this would disqualify anyone from serving in office.” 

Moore’s campaign denied the allegations, which The Washington Post first reported, telling the paper the accusations of four women are “the very definition of fake news.” The Post reporters talked to more than 30 sources in the course of their investigation.

On Thursday, numerous Republican lawmakers on Capitol Hill called on Moore to drop out of the race ― if the allegations are true.

During his 2016 campaign, Trump dismissed allegations of sexual misconduct against himself from more than a dozen women and threatened to sue some of his accusers. He claimed that a 2005 tape of him bragging about sexual assault, which was released last fall, was “locker room talk.”

In September, Moore, a controversial judge in Alabama, won the primary for the special election. He beat GOP establishment candidate Sen. Luther Strange (R-Ala.), who was chosen to fill the seat left vacant when Jeff Sessions became Trump’s attorney general.

Trump notably backed Strange over Moore, though many members of his base, including former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon, supported Moore.

But after Moore won, Trump disavowed his endorsement of Strange, deleting tweets in support of him. And the day after the primary, the president tweeted in support of Moore, calling him “a really great guy.”



&&&&&

+++++

Trump Follows China’s Lead On Press Freedom, Doesn’t Take Questions From Reporters

2017-11-09

It’s a sharp departure from his recent predecessors, who pushed Chinese officials to allow reporters to ask questions of the two countries’ leaders.

WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump, whose presidential campaign featured plenty of tough talk about China, took a more cordial tone with Chinese President Xi Jinping while visiting Xi’s country this week.

“I give China great credit,” Trump — who once likened the U.S. trade deficit with China to “rape” and accused China of committing “the greatest theft in the history of the world” — said during a joint appearance with Xi on Thursday.

Another subject on which Trump apparently hasn’t offered China much resistance: freedom of the press.

On Thursday in Beijing, each leader made statements but did not take questions from the press — perhaps unsurprising, given Trump’s criticisms of the media and his attempts at infringing on press freedom at home, as well as his embrace of authoritarian leaders abroad.

But it was a sharp departure from prior U.S. presidents of both parties, whose administrations pushed back on China’s demands for curtailed access.

When asked by reporters covering Trump’s trip why he and Xi did not take media questions, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said that “it was at the Chinese insistence there were no questions today.”

Trump’s last three predecessors all arranged to allow reporters to ask questions during their trips to China, like President Bill Clinton in 1998 and President George W. Bush in 2002.

In 2009, President Barack Obama faced sharp criticism for not taking reporters’ questions on his first visit to the country. He did so when he returned in 2014.

“The Chinese try this every time. It’s a test of will and principle,” Obama’s first White House press secretary, Jay Carney, tweeted Thursday morning. ”Letting them dictate press access is an embarrassing capitulation.”

“They always insist, Sarah,” former United Nations Ambassador Susan Rice tweeted in response to Sanders. “The trick is to use diplomacy to extract that concession as a matter of principle, despite their resistence [sic].”

In 2014, the Obama administration fought to allow reporter questions for Obama’s joint press conference with Xi. In a famous exchange, Obama granted the only question to The New York Times’ Mark Landler, who asked Xi about press access.

“With respect to press attitudes towards America or me in particular, I am always working on the assumption that the press giving me a hard time is true wherever I go, whether in the United States or China,” Obama said. “That’s part of being a public official.”

Obama’s calling on Landler was intended to make a point. China had barred several of the Times’ foreign correspondents, as well as reporters from some other foreign outlets, from obtaining visas, in retaliation for the paper’s investigative reporting into Communist Party leaders. Since that reporting in 2012, the Chinese government has largely banned access to the Times’ website.

Xi appeared to ignore Landler’s question, before saying that “media outlets need to obey China’s laws and regulations.”

At a news conference during his first visit to China in 2002, Bush urged the country’s government to respect human rights and religious freedom.

“China’s future is for the Chinese people to decide. Yet no nation is exempt from the demands of human dignity,” he said. “All the world’s people, including the people of China, should be free to choose how they live, how they worship, and how they work.”

Trump, by contrast, has made little mention of these issues, mostly lavishing praise on his Chinese counterpart. And he agreed to work with “Beijing’s sweeping efforts to control the message of his heavily choreographed visit,” according to The Associated Press.

White House social media director Dan Scavino on Thursday used Chinese state media coverage to promote Trump’s visit.



&&&&&

+++++

Fox News Promotes False Claim That ‘Not A Single Network’ Covered Donna Brazile’s Book

2017-11-09

WASHINGTON ― On Fox News, where it sometimes seems like the 2016 campaign never ended, former Democratic National Committee chair Donna Brazile’s allegation that the party tilted its nominating process in favor of Hillary Clinton received hours of coverage.

Brazile’s new book, in which she criticizes the party and says a fundraising agreement between the DNC and Clinton unfairly benefitted the Democratic nominee, also was widely reported in other media. 

But on Fox, which largely ignored Tuesday’s Republican losses in state and local elections, the network was reporting mainstream media outlets failed to cover Brazile’s allegations.

“The radio silence from the media is really puzzling,” Republican National Committee spokeswoman Kayleigh McEnany said in a “Fox & Friends” segment Thursday that asked “how will anti-Trump press cover DNC scandal?” “Not a single network — not ABC, NBC, CBS — devoted one second to these claims. It’s appalling.”

The “Fox & Friends” hosts concurred, nodding in approval as McEnany continued to assail media outlets for their supposed failure to cover Brazile’s claims.

“If this were a Republican revealing that the deck was stacked against all the other Republicans, and then somebody came out, who was running the RNC, and spilled all the beans, would that be a big story?” host Steve Doocy asked.

“It would be a huge story. It would be an explosive story,” McEnany responded. “But now they choose to ignore this because it’s the Democratic Party. It’s libel, it’s malicious, it’s not right. They spend so much breathless time covering this Russian campaign collusion conspiracy theory. And then they tell us, all the while, that all these really viable accusations against Hillary Clinton — from Uranium One, to the Clinton Foundation, now this at the DNC, the dossier — those are the real conspiracy theories. That’s what the media tells us.”

In truth, ABC, NBC and CBS, as well as CNN and MSNBC, all covered Brazile’s revelations, and several of the networks featured interviews with her. The networks also used Brazile’s book as a peg for stories about divisions within the Democratic Party and about Brazile herself, who has since walked back some of the more explosive claims in her book.

Even the “Fox & Friends” hosts alluded to some of this coverage earlier in Thursday’s show.

“Donna Brazile, have you heard? She has a book out,” Doocy said at the top of the 6 a.m. hour.

“She has been on every single network pushing this book,” responded “Fox & Friends” host Ainsley Earhardt.

The exaggerated claim that mainstream media are ignoring Brazile’s book seems to have been repeated by other right-wing media. On the day Politico first published an excerpt of Brazile’s book last week, Breitbart wrote that “ABC



&&&&&

+++++

‘Their Intent Is To Cause Fear’: Video Campaign Exposes Sexism Against Women In Politics

2017-11-07

WASHINGTON ― An organization advocating female representation wants to expose and combat sexism and misogyny faced by women in public office with a new video campaign.

The Women’s Media Center video campaign, launched Tuesday to coincide with Election Day, features stories from eight women ― Democrats and Republicans ― who have run for public office. They describe verbal and physical threats they faced as candidates, as well as scrutiny of their physical appearance and voices, and lament that such attacks often discourage women from entering politics.

“It’s not accidental that in the year 2017, still 75 percent of the people who hold office in this country are men,” Wendy Davis (D), a former Texas state senator and gubernatorial candidate, says in the video. “It’s very purposeful.”

Davis entered the national spotlight in 2013, when she held an 11-hour filibuster protesting a Texas bill that would have banned abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy. As her career advanced, critics called her “abortion Barbie” and made posters that featured her head attached to the body of a Barbie doll with a plastic baby in her belly.

“It made me drop out of the race,” Kim Weaver, former Democratic challenger to Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa), says in the video, referring to a series of death threats she received earlier this year.

Maryland state Del. Angela Angel (D) was called “a dumb bitch,” and says even online threats “could become real.”

“Their intent is to try to intimidate you. Their intent is to cause fear,” Angel says in the video.

“When you have a legislative body that is mostly made up of white males, is that really representative of our good, old US of A? I don’t think so,” Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.) says in the video.

The campaign starts on the eve of the anniversary of the 2016 presidential election, in which sexism and misogyny played an outsized role. Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton has said gender contributed to her loss to President Donald Trump, and has spoken and written about attacks against her, often launched by Trump himself.

Over the last year, Clinton’s loss has motivated more women to become politically active and to run for office.

But on a more basic level, the women featured in the video encourage people to raise awareness about the sexism and harassment women face.

“What we need to do to change this, really, is to call it out when we see it happening,” Davis says in the video.



&&&&&

+++++

Russian Lawyer Who Met With Donald Trump Jr. Claims He Offered A Quid Pro Quo

2017-11-06

When President Donald Trump’s eldest son met with a Russian lawyer in June 2016 after being promised “information that would incriminate” Trump’s election opponent Hillary Clinton, Donald Trump Jr. suggested that a U.S. law the lawyer was lobbying against could be reconsidered if Trump became president, according to the lawyer, Natalia Veselnitskaya.

“The meeting was a failure; none of us understood what the point of it had been,” she told Bloomberg in an interview on Monday, referring to the meeting that Trump Jr. initially claimed was about the Magnitsky Act, which Congress passed in 2012 to punish Russian officials for human rights abuses.

“Looking ahead, if we come to power, we can return to this issue and think what to do about it,’’ Trump Jr. said during the meeting, according to Veselnitskaya. “I understand our side may have messed up, but it’ll take a long time to get to the bottom of it.”

Veselnitskaya also claimed that he wanted “financial documents showing that money that allegedly evaded U.S. taxes had gone to Clinton’s campaign,” according to Bloomberg. But she said that she did not have them.

Alan Futerfas, Trump Jr.’s lawyer, said he had no comment on Bloomberg’s story.

The June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower, which The New York Times uncovered this summer, has drawn close scrutiny from the multiple investigations into whether Trump’s campaign colluded with Russia last year.

Trump Jr. took the meeting, which was also attended by Trump’s son-in-law and adviser Jared Kushner and then-campaign chairman Paul Manafort, after being told that the information on Clinton was “part of Russia and its government’s support for Mr. Trump,’’ according to emails he released in response to the Times’ reporting.

“If it is what you say, I love it,” he replied in an email to music publicist Rob Goldstone, who arranged the meeting through one of his clients, Russian pop star Emin Agalarov.

Trump Jr.’s explanation for the meeting repeatedly changed. He initially claimed that it concerned adoptions, referring to the Russian government banning Americans from adopting Russian children, in retaliation for the Magnitsky Act.

Veselnitskaya told Bloomberg that she would be willing to meet with the Senate Judiciary Committee and with special counsel Robert Mueller’s team, which are both conducting investigations into the Trump campaign.



&&&&&

+++++

Jared Kushner Keeps Failing To Disclose Connections With Russians

2017-11-05

Leaked documents reveal that one of Kushner’s business associates helped Kremlin-backed financial institutions invest in Facebook and Twitter.

WASHINGTON ― Jared Kushner, President Donald Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser, failed to disclose business ties to a Russian oligarch whose deep pockets helped Russian government institutions invest in Facebook and Twitter.

A Kremlin-backed bank and the financial arm of the state-owned oil and gas company Gazprom made large investments in the social media companies through Yuri Milner, a Russian technology magnate, according to leaked documents published Sunday by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists.

As The Guardian reports:

The money flowed through investment vehicles controlled by Milner, who also invested in a startup in New York that Kushner co-owns with his brother. Kushner initially failed to disclose his own holding in the startup, Cadre, when he joined Trump’s White House.
The state-owned financial institutions which Milner assisted are often used for “pet political projects” of Russian President Vladimir Putin, Alexander Vershbow, former U.S. ambassador to Russia, told The Guardian.

Read the full report here.

The trove of documents, called the Paradise Papers, which includes details about the finances of many prominent international leaders, also revealed that Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross failed to disclose business holdings with members of Putin’s inner circle.

Kushner failing to disclose contacts with Russians has become a familiar pattern.

Earlier this year, the White House senior adviser notably omitted numerous foreign contacts from the federal form that he filled out to gain a high-level security clearance, raising questions about Kushner’s conduct and drawing scrutiny from the multiple investigations into possible collusion between Trump’s campaign and Russian officials.

Kushner’s ties to Milner appear to contradict a statement he made in July, when he met privately with the Senate Intelligence Committee, which is conducting one of the investigations into Trump’s campaign.

“I have not relied on Russian funds to finance my business activities in the private sector,” he said in a statement.

Here are other interactions and connections with Russia that Kushner previously failed to disclose.

June 2016: Trump Tower meeting with Russian lawyer

Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., met with Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya after being offered “information that would incriminate” his father’s opponent, Hillary Clinton, that he was told was “part of Russia and its government’s support for Mr. Trump.”

Kushner and then-campaign chairman Paul Manafort also attended.

It was through Kushner revising his security clearance form that the New York Times, which broke the story this summer, discovered the existence of the meeting.

December 2016: Meeting with then-Russian ambassador 

During Trump’s presidential transition late last year, Kushner reportedly met with then-Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak to discuss establishing a backchannel with the Russian government. 

December 2016: Meeting with the head of a Russian state-owned bank

That same month, Kushner, at Kislyak’s request, met with Sergey Gorkov, the CEO of Russia’s state-owned Vnesheconombank, which was sanctioned by the United States.



&&&&&

+++++

Texas GOP Rep. Lamar Smith Announces Retirement

2017-11-02

WASHINGTON ― Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Texas), a prominent climate change denier who chairs the House Science Committee, announced on Thursday that he is retiring from the House after his term ends next year.

“At the end of this Congress, I will have completed my six-year term as chairman of the Science, Space and Technology Committee,” he wrote in an email to supporters on Thursday afternoon. “I have one new grandchild and a second arriving soon! And I hope to find other ways to stay involved in politics.”

“With over a year remaining in my term, there is still much to do,” he added. “There is legislation to enact, dozens of hearings to hold and hundreds of votes to cast.”

The news, first reported by the Texas Tribune, comes as several other Republican lawmakers have announced recently that they are stepping down, with some facing tough primary challenges in response to the anti-establishment direction being taken by the GOP since President Donald Trump’s election.

Smith, who was first elected to the House in 1986, is now the 20th Republican in the House to either resign this year or announce that they will not seek re-election in 2018.

Earlier this week, fellow Republican Texas Rep. Jeb Hensarling, who chairs the House Financial Services Committee, also announced his retirement after eight terms in Congress.

Several of the retiring representatives are moderate Republicans in swing districts, potentially facing an uphill battle for re-election, such as Rep. Charlie Dent (R-Pa.), Dave Trott (R-Mich.) and Dave Reichert (R-Wash.)

Smith likely had a safer route to re-election, though according to election data from the Daily Kos, Trump won the predominantly GOP district by just 10 points in 2016, compared to 2012 GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney’s nearly 22-point margin of victory.

Derrick Crowe, a climate activist turned Democratic challenger to Smith, said that the GOP congressman’s retirement was “great news for the climate.”

In the Senate, two prominent Republicans have also announced their retirements in recent weeks: Sens. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) and Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.).


&&&&&

+++++

Trump Says He’d ‘Certainly Consider’ Sending New York City Attacker To Guantanamo Bay

2017-11-01

He also called him an animal.

WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump on Wednesday said he would consider sending Sayfullo Saipov, the suspect in Tuesday’s terrorist attack in New York City, to the notorious U.S. military detention facility in Guantanamo Bay.

“I would certainly consider that, yes,” Trump said in response to a question from Major Garrett of CBS. “Send him to Gitmo.” Trump also urged “quick justice” and “strong justice” for Saipov, calling him “this animal.”

As they had during the Obama administration, Republicans said the controversial detention center on the American military base on the edge of Cuba was the best place to send a terror suspect.

“Take him to Guantanamo,” Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) told reporters on Capitol Hill. “He’s a terrorist, he should be kept there. There’s no Miranda rights for somebody who kills Americans.” (Alleged murderers do, in fact, have Miranda rights.)

McCain also made a comment referencing the terrible track record of the military commissions system in Guantanamo. Sixteen years after the Sept. 11 attacks, there’s still no firm start date for the trial of several defendants charged in connection with the attacks through the military commissions process that began long ago. The federal judicial system, on the other hand, has a long track record of convicting and sentencing alleged terrorists, including the Boston Marathon bomber.

“It doesn’t work well,” McCain said of Guantanamo, “but it beats the hell out of Miranda rights.”

Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) also said he supported the idea of treating Saipov, who has a green card, as an enemy combatant.

“The idea that America is not part of the battlefield is insane,” he said. Graham added that he spoke with Trump about holding suspect as an enemy combatant. “I think he’s inclined to make a change.”

Later Wednesday, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders attempted to clarify Trump’s comments, saying he “would support” sending Saipov to Guantanamo “but wasn’t necessarily advocating for it.” When asked, she said the White House “would consider him to be an enemy combatant.”

Declaring Saipov an enemy combatant would set off an intense legal battle, as it’s not clear if such a declaration would even be legal. It has been more than a decade since the U.S. sent someone to Guantanamo Bay, and the detention center’s population dropped significantly during the Obama administration.

Attorney General Jeff Sessions supports trying terrorists in Guantanamo, and visited the facility over the summer. But the Trump administration blinked when it came to sending an alleged al Qaeda member to the remote military base, instead charging him in federal court. 

Sending Saipov to Guantanamo would almost certainly delay justice for the victim’s families for years. Even if he were ever convicted through the military commissions system, there would be a lengthy appeals process. The conviction would also be viewed as illegitimate in many parts of the globe. 

A spokeswoman for the Justice Department declined to comment when HuffPost asked whether the DOJ considered the suspect an enemy combatant. 

Despite Guantanamo’s poor track record, Trump raised idea of trying U.S. citizens at Guantanamo when he was on the campaign trail. He has continually advocated for harsher treatment of terrorists, expressing support for waterboarding, an illegal practice widely condemned as torture.

Of prosecuting suspected terrorists, Trump said: “We’re going to have to do things that are unthinkable.”

Igor Bobic contributed reporting.




&&&&&

+++++

Trump Did Not Rule Out Meeting With Putin During Election: CNN Report

2017-11-01

George Papadopoulos, then an adviser for Trump’s campaign, said he “had connections that could help arrange a meeting” with the Russian president.

WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump “didn’t say yes and he didn’t say no” to a campaign adviser’s suggestion last year that he meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin, according to a CNN report citing an unnamed official who was in the room at the time.

Trump foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos made the suggestion at a March 31, 2016 meeting of Trump’s national security team, according to a federal indictment unsealed on Monday. However, CNN’s sources say that now-Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who was leading the national security advisory council at the time, rejected Papadopoulos’ proposal.

Monday’s indictment, part of special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into possible collusion between Trump’s campaign and Russia, revealed that Papadopoulos pleaded guilty last month to lying to the FBI about being offered “dirt” from the Russian government on Trump’s opponent Hillary Clinton. He is now cooperating with Mueller’s probe.

According to the indictment, Papadopoulos said he’d told other members of the national security team that he “had connections that could help arrange a meeting” with Putin.

The White House and the Department of Justice did not immediately return requests for comment about the interaction.

Papadopoulos’ revelations provide the clearest evidence so far of a possible link between Trump’s campaign and efforts by the Russian government to influence the 2016 election.

When reporters asked White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders about Papadopoulos on Monday, she dismissed the March 2016 meeting as “brief.”

“I’m not sure that the president recalls specific details of the meeting,” she said.

On Wednesday, CNN’s Jim Acosta asked Sanders whether Trump recalled Papadopoulos raising the idea of meeting with Putin during that meeting.

“No, I don’t believe he does,” she said.

The White House and Trump allies have spent much of the week trying to distance the president from Papadopoulos, as well as Mueller’s investigation, by downplaying the former adviser’s role in the campaign.

In a tweet on Tuesday, Trump called Papadopoulos a “young, low level volunteer,” whom he claimed “few people knew.” But last year, Trump had praised him as “an excellent guy” when naming him to his national security team.

When reporters asked Sanders on Monday about a photo from the March 31 meeting that shows Papadopoulos at a table with Trump and Sessions, she minimized it by saying that “the president has thousands of photographs with millions of people.”

On Tuesday, former Trump adviser Michael Caputo reduced Papadopoulos’ role to just “a coffee boy” for the campaign.

The details of Papadopoulos’ indictment also raise more questions about what Sessions knew of contacts between Trump’s campaign and Russia, since he led the council Papadopoulos was part of. Sessions concealed several meetings with Russian officials and has recused himself from matters involving the multiple investigations into the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia. 



&&&&&

+++++

Trump’s Already Urging Policy Changes After NYC Terrorist Attack — Without Waiting For ‘The Facts’

2017-11-01

For some reason, he couldn’t do this after the Las Vegas shooting.

WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump on Wednesday morning was quick to call for policy changes in response to Tuesday’s deadly terrorist attack in New York City ― blaming one of his frequent critics, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), and urging more stringent immigration measures.

Trump’s tweets ― which appeared to reference a segment on “Fox & Friends” that aired just 20 minutes before, featuring his former adviser Sebastian Gorka ― follow a pattern of him calling for political solutions in response to terrorist attacks, particularly those committed by Muslims.

Yet following the mass shooting in Las Vegas last month, White House officials insisted it was “premature” to discuss politics and dismissed calls to re-evaluate gun legislation.

Press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders claimed it was necessary to “know all of the facts” before bringing up policy — despite all the times the president has hastily proposed policy changes in the wake of attacks, sometimes without waiting for details.

Schumer alluded to that hypocrisy in his response to Trump’s tweets Wednesday morning.

Hours after the attack, Trump on Tuesday evening called on his administration “to step up our already Extreme Vetting Program,” referring to the travel ban targeting a number of Muslim-majority countries. However, that ban does not apply to Uzbekistan, the country from which the suspect emigrated.

Following several attacks in London earlier this year, Trump immediately promoted the travel ban and launched into a feud with the city’s mayor, Sadiq Khan, who is Muslim.

Following several attacks in London earlier this year, Trump immediately promoted the travel ban and launched into a feud with the city’s mayor, Sadiq Khan, who is Muslim.


&&&&&

+++++

John Kelly’s Remarks On Civil War Blasted By Congressional Black Caucus Head

2017-10-31

“Shocking that someone charged with defending their country, in some profound way, does not comprehend the country they claim to defend,” Coates said of Kelly, a retired Marine Corps general.

In the interview, Kelly also praised Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee as “an honorable man,” and expressed concern over the removal of numerous Confederate statues ― an effort that has accelerated following the deadly violence sparked by a white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, in August.

“Human history, our culture is an evolving thing,” Kelly said. “There will be, 100 or 200 years from now, people that criticize us for what we do, and I guess they’ll tear down, you know, statues of people that we revere today.”

Trump has taken a similar stance on Confederate statues. The president also famously argued that “both sides” were to blame for what happened in Charlottesville and that some “very fine people” were among those participating in the white supremacist rally.

Richmond’s statement reiterated his criticism of Kelly for refusing to apologize to Rep. Frederica Wilson (D-Fla.), after earlier this month he misrepresented a speech that she made, while attacking her character.



&&&&&

+++++

Donald Trump Dismisses Campaign Adviser As ‘Young, Low Level Volunteer’

2017-10-31

It’s a line of defense similar to ones he’s used before.

WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump on Tuesday downplayed the role of his former foreign policy adviser, George Papadopoulos, calling him merely a “young, low level volunteer,” whom he claimed “few people knew.”

The president’s Tuesday morning tweets were his first comments about Papadopoulos, who pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about being offered “dirt” from the Russian government regarding Trump’s 2016 opponent Hillary Clinton, according to a federal indictment unsealed Monday.

“Few people knew the young, low level volunteer named George, who has already proven to be a liar,” Trump tweeted.

Papadopoulos served on Trump’s foreign policy advisory council during his campaign, a group led by then-Trump adviser Jeff Sessions, who is now attorney general. When announcing the team in March of 2016, Trump praised him as “an excellent guy.”

The discovery that Papadopoulos had actively tried to obtain information from Russian officials came as special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into possible collusion between Trump’s campaign and Russian officials during last year’s election made its biggest moves yet. In addition to Papadopoulos, who is now cooperating with the investigation, Mueller’s team also indicted Trump’s former campaign manager Paul Manafort.

White House officials and Trump allies have swiftly sought to distance the president from the revelations by minimizing the campaign officials’ involvement in Trump’s campaign: a familiar — and at times, absurd — line of defense.

On Tuesday, former Trump campaign adviser Michael Caputo told CNN that Papadopoulos was just “a coffee boy” for the campaign.

When asked about a photograph showing Papadopoulos at a meeting with Trump and Sessions, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders on Monday dismissed it, saying that “the president has thousands of photographs with millions of people.”

Of Manafort, who was Trump’s campaign chairman, Sanders said he was “brought in to lead the delegate process, which he did, and was dismissed not too long after that” — omitting the time that he spent leading Trump’s campaign.

Trump on Tuesday reiterated that Manafort’s indictment vindicated him because the conspiracy and money laundering charges against Manafort “took place long before he came to the campaign.”

However, the indictment, which details how Manafort concealed profits from lobbying for pro-Russia groups, covers activities up to and including this year.

Trump again insisted that Manafort’s charges indicate “no collusion,” citing Manafort’s lawyer. He also attacked the “fake news” and called for an investigation into Democrats.

In a subsequent tweet, Trump attempted to divert attention from Monday’s revelations by focusing on congressional Republicans’ push to pass tax legislation by the end of the year.

Trump seethed at Monday’s news, according to The Washington Post, “fuming” and expressing “exasperation and disgust” while watching television reports about the indictments.

In more tweets on Tuesday, Trump attempted to change the conversation to what he called “the biggest story yesterday,” Democratic lobbyist Tony Podesta leaving his firm after it was implicated in Manafort’s indictment, which Trump-friendly Fox News emphasized in its coverage of the story. Podesta’s brother is former Clinton campaign manager John Podesta.

This story has been updated with additional tweets from Trump.

&&&&&

