+++++

Embarrassing 'Will & Grace' Jokes Jeff Sessions is Racist, Jared Kushner's Gay

2017-10-27

Like the e-mails your aunt forwards you, Will & Grace continues it's steep descent into irrelevancy. On the October 26 episode, "How to Succeed in Business Without Really Crying," we are treated to more ham-fisted one-liners that might play well among the cast, crew, and their friends in the bubble, but are just silly to those of us they count on to actually, you know, watch the show. 

At only one minute into the episode, Jack (Sean Hayes) enters the scene saying, "What's gay, beautiful, and and just got rich for doing nothing?" to which Will (Eric McCormack) replies, "Jared Kushner?" Yes, that's the level of humor we're dealing with in this show- playground. Jared Kushner being gay is not a rumor with which I was familiar, so I took a deep breath and checked the internet to see if this was a common conspiracy theory. Getting no results, I have to conclude Will & Grace just pulled that one out of thin air. What of him being rich for nothing? Yes, he was born wealthy and married into another wealthy family. That's true, but he can hardly help who his parents are. What he can help is what he does, and what he did was go to Harvard, get a joint JD/MBA from NYU, and has been successful in business. Sorry, Will. Your joke made zero sense. I'd like to award you points for effort, but I can't imagine it took any.

That applies to most, if not all, of their political jokes. Later in the episode, Karen (Megan Mullally) reacts to seeing a friend cry by saying, "Oh, for God's sake, don't cry. You look like Jeff Sessions watching a black man vote." Yes, the character on the show who is supposed to be a Republican is saying that the Attorney General of the United States is a racist. Presumably, this is in reference to Sessions' history of support for voter ID laws, which would obviously apply to people of all races. Still, voter ID is a favorite straw man among liberals, and Will & Grace is on it! Maybe I should just be happy they even know who the Attorney General even is. It's weird that they neglected to mention that he desegregated schools and took on (and effectively broke) the KKK in Alabama, right? Nah, let's just pretend that voter ID is tantamount to crying at the idea of a black man voting. 

Will & Grace, you should never have come back to our airwaves. You should have stayed a happy memory, a thing to treasure in our memories and in old episodes on Hulu. It hurts me to watch you trying this hard to be funny and failing so miserably. I have to wonder how long people are going to keep watching outside of the liberal enclaves that delight in having their own opinions reflected back at them from an sad sitcom.

&&&&&

+++++

CBS Shows Stark Differences Between Brave Military and Wimpy Liberals on 'SEAL Team'

2017-10-26

SEAL Team on CBS is starting to become a reliably pro-American, pro-military show in a television landscape that doesn't give us much to enjoy. In the October 25 episode "Collapse," the drama portrayed American service members respectfully as those doing good in the world and liberals as, well, ridiculous.

This episode has Jason (David Boreanaz) and the rest of his SEAL Team protecting the American Embassy in South Sudan as the ambassador refuses to evacuate in an increasingly unstable political environment. The team is told that their job is to protect the embassy while Americans remain there, and help to evacuate safely "if things go the other way." If you think this has shades of Benghazi, you're not the only one. Team member Ray (Neil Brown, Jr.) boils it down to "so...after it goes Benghazi, the DOD can say they had a Tier One team on the ground." 

Once in South Sudan, Ray is confronted by African-American journalist Stefan Bol who tries to get information by race-baiting. He doesn't realize that Ray has a bond with his SEAL Team that is far deeper than identity politics. 

&&&&&

+++++

Alt-Right Nazis, Incest & Abortion: All In One Jam-Packed 'American Horror Story'

2017-10-25

With storylines about gender-curious gerbils and killer clowns, American Horror Story: Cult has been pretty off-the-wall but, in the October 24 episode "Winter of Our Discontent," they managed to go off the deep end. The episode had everything, from a Nazi cop, to an incestual threesome, to a woman bleeding to death from an abortion. You'll notice that there are no clips in this article because the scenes were too graphic, so you'll have to use your imagination. Actually, don't. Trust me.

After a tiny bit of plot, we jump right into the issues-based portion of the show with a scene with Ivy (Alison Pill) in her restaurant serving Kai's alt-right "army" of blue shirts. One of them comments to Ivy, "Your bangability would go way up if you just smiled." That sets Ivy off, "How did this Handmaid shit even happen?" It really has nothing to do with the plot of The Handmaid's Tale, which is a cautionary tale about a big government theocracy, but it's become a catch-all for all things feminist. 

Ivy, Winter (Billie Lourd), and Beverly (Adina Porter), reduced to waiting on and cooking for the men, then meet in the kitchen to rant about how "48 hours ago, we were on the verge of toppling the patriarchy!" Beverly makes it clear that this is a temporary situation, telling Winter that "come the end of the week, if I'm still in this goddamn kitchen, I'm coming for [Kai]. And you better get the hell out of my way."

From there, we see the newly-elected city councilman Kai (Evan Peters) successfully getting his colleagues to pass a motion that would put armed private security on the streets. The audience is filled with Kai's blue shirts, many of them openly carrying what the mainstream media would call "assault rifles." One of the council members isn't so sure about the proposal, but Kai points out that, while he lives in a gated community, his daughters can't always be behind those gates. Getting the hint, the council member quickly votes in favor. Hot takes on The Handmaid's Tale and guns, and we aren't even ten minutes into the episode. 

Sin and Punishment

Here's where it really starts getting crazy. Winter tells Beverly how everything started when she and her brother Kai used to spend their time "trolling the social justice warriors." It showed them going to pro-abortion websites and writing things like, "Why should we allow abortion 'For the health of the mother' when the baby is the only part of that duo without sin?" or "Man can never escape from temptation because, in birth, he passes through the vagina, which has been desecrated by the filthy act of sexual intercourse." Is this how they think pro-lifers think, let alone speak? Apparently they do, because it got them a message on the Dark Web from "Pastor Charles" to come visit what he calls Judgment House.

It turns out Judgment House is a house of horrors where Pastor Charles is punishing real people for their sins. They find a woman strapped to a gurney bleeding to death from an abortion begging for help, and Pastor Charles' voice comes over the loudspeaker asking, "Who shall speak for the unborn?" In another room, an addict is being pumped full of drugs and another man is being held captive and about to be stabbed through the chest for being a "sodomite," as Pastor Charles recites Leviticus.

This whole segment of the show paints Christians as every bit the hypocritical, judgmental extremists liberals imagine them to be. Pastor Charles is busy standing in front of a neon "Jesus Saves" cross condemning everyone to death, quoting Scripture, but he's not particularly interested in the truth.

It turns out the "pastor" kidnapped the woman from a Planned Parenthood, only she went there to be treated for a urinary tract infection, not an abortion. (Thanks, AHS for reminding us that Planned Parenthood is so important for healthcare and not at all for abortions! /sarcasm) The addict was kidnapped from a rehab clinic where he was trying to get clean. The other man was kidnapped outside of an AIDS clinic, but he was actually there volunteering.

Kai ends up killing Pastor Charles to save everyone and going back on the Dark Web to save others but, as Winter tells it, it was then that he decided the whole world had to be destroyed and rebuilt. To get that job done, he pretended to be a Donald Trump supporter and used many of his messages to get elected to city council and build his cult. 

Holy Incestual Threesome

You think we're done? Just wait! Next, Winter goes to talk to Kai about acting like a psycho in the present day, but he has an idea to make everything better. "We're just the seed," he tells her, "And from that seed, from the blood we share, a savior will arise to carry on our mission. You... will be the mother of our messiah baby."

Winter points out that, as they're brother an sister, that's incest and incest is icky. So, instead, Kai is going to have another man be "the instrument of our union." Kai will have Samuels, a gay policeman in their cult, have sex with Winter and, while that is going on, Kai will have sex with Samuels. "That way," he tells Winter, "I will be the father, but you will remain pure and unsoiled. You cool with it?" He's very thoughtful like that.

"I can't believe I was at the Women's March three months ago," Winter says under her breath, as she allows herself to be controlled by the patriarchy and Kai begins the ceremony for "the sacred copulation." He puts "I Swear" on the iPod which is declared "a holy song now, like the Lord's Prayer."

He tells them they must begin the "holy ritual," i.e. his sister being made to have sex with someone that he will simultaneously be having sex with to produce a Messiah baby. Fortunately, Samuels is unable to perform due to the fact that he's gay, and Winter bails because she very fairly feels like she's being raped. No wonder this episode is called "Winter of Our Discontent." I'd be discontented if I were Winter, too. Now that this show has gone for incest, there aren't a lot of taboos left to cross off the list.

Nazi Cop

We have a much-needed moment of levity after that horrible scene when Ally (Sarah Paulson) has Kai over and he guesses what's for dinner: "Leftist salads with quinoa and green goddess dressing?" (It's actually Sloppy Joes, but that was a good joke for a complete nutcase who gets people to dress like clowns and commit homicide). Also, Winter's penance is dumping  trash and recycling on the side of the road because Kai "doesn't believe in global warming." I wonder if that's worse to some lefty viewers than the whole homicide thing. Hard to say.

We also find out some backstory on Samuels' relationship with Kai while he and Winter are in the car together. He met Kai when busting him for writing fake prescriptions and, as a crooked cop, just took a percentage of the money. That wasn't a surprise, but you know what was (kinda)? He's a Nazi! This show thinks very highly of the police, does it not? Kai is the one who helps Samuels realize that he's gay, and of course they are shown having sex.

Samuels tries to complete his mission to impregnate Winter by raping her (the only way he can perform with a woman is by strangling her) but she steals his gun and tries to get him to repeat the mantra she learned in last week's episode that all men are supposed to say to women, "I am a turd." He won't say it, and Winter gets more and more upset about the things she (and feminism) hasn't been able to control.

"When Hillary lost, I did, too," she says, "I should have fought back. I should have gotten angry. I joined this thing and it's too late for me. And it's too late for you, too, turd." With that, she shoots him in the head and his brains splatter against the car window.

Hard to get a more ringing endorsement for the resistance than that.

That takes us pretty much to the end of the episode or, at least, of the socially-aware, political portion of it. The show wraps up with some non-political plot including Kai cutting off his brother's pinky and brutally murdering him, but that is neither here nor there.

Now, aren't you glad I didn't add any video clips?

&&&&&

+++++

'Blackish' Says President Donald Trump 'Failed,' Has 'No Friends' (and Gets a Whole Lot More Wrong)

2017-10-24

Family game night turns political on the October 24 episode of ABC's Blackish, "Advance to Go (Collect $200)," when Dre (Anthony Anderson) starts winning big and alienates the rest of the family.

Playing in pairs, Dre realizes he wins more when his wife Rainbow (Tracee Ellis Ross) leaves the room, so he makes her play with their tween twins. As he wins more Monopoly money and, as the game works, uses that to purchases more properties in the game, he buys more houses and hotels to put on them, even tricking his young son Jack (Miles Brown) into trades that are much better for father than son. Rainbow tries to warn him he's overextending himself and he shouldn't spend all of his money. 

As she predicts, a few bad rolls of the dice have Dre paying out instead of taking money in, but he isn't worried. He says, "I'm a real estate impresario. I'll get it back as soon as one of you fools check into my huge, luxurious hotels." His daughter Diane says, "You're Donald Trump!" to which he replies, "I am Donald Trump," then laughs maniacally.

He loves having money and lording it over everyone else, and continues to build like crazy. Before long, the money runs out. He's spent it all on buying properties and has nothing left for the expenses that come up in the game. While family members lent each other money throughout the game, nobody is willing to help Dre after the way he acted. 


Dre: My real estate empire has failed. I have no friends. Oh, my God. I am Donald Trump. Sad. Fake game! I was cheated bigly! Her e-mails! Her e-mails! Stupid Hillary! Stupid Hillary! Put her in jail!
That's quite a tantrum. I hate to break it to you, Dre, but Donald Trump won the presidency of the United States, so I think he has some friends. As for "fake game," we at Newsbusters know that the fake news this is mocking is all too real. What isn't fake news? Hillary's e-mails (sorry, mainstream media). In fact, a brand new investigation on the FBI handling of the original investigation was launched the very day this episode aired. All you really got right was that Donald Trump was a real estate mogul that had hard times, although he rebuilt his business, and then ascended to the presidency. 

Sorry, Blackish. It has to be awkward to be this wrong. 


&&&&&

+++++

The CW's 'Jane the Virgin' Unwittingly Makes Case for School Choice

2017-10-20

Jane the Virgin on The CW has tackled a lot of issues over the years. Chastity (obviously), abortion, immigration reform, and even dealing with an evil twin. On the October 20 episode, "Chapter Sixty-Six," school choice was added into the mix. Jane (Gina Rodriguez) and Rafael's (Justin Baldoni) son Mateo always had anything he wanted due to his father's fortune but, because Rafael lost his inheritance, Mateo's going to have to switch to public school.

They're living with Jane's family, though, and their modest home is not in a zip code with the best schools. As Jane and Rafael realize their son's future is tied to his zip code without the money to buy a better education, they make the case for school choice without even knowing it, but they ignore that Florida, the state in which the show takes place, has it. 

When Mateo's parents first visit the school for which he is zoned, Jane is positive about public school. "I have great memories of the public kindergarten I went to," she tells Rafael who, having grown up wealthy, is completely out of his element and incredibly skeptical. In the next scene, Jane lets loose to her mother, Xiomara (Andrea Noveda), "No way in hell is Mateo going there!" she tells her mom. "I-I mean, it's a vicious cycle-- rich kids get better schools, better education, get into better colleges, earn more money, put it back into their schools."

She's right that it's a vicious cycle. Kids are trapped in a cycle of poverty in which kids, predominantly students of color like Jane and Rafael's, are stuck in ineffective, failing schools which don't prepare them for the best jobs. Without a good job, they can't get to a better neighborhood, their kids go to a similar school, and the cycle continues. 

People with money have options because they can pay private tuition but, for people who can't afford it, the school for which they are zoned is often their only choice. Rafael has another suggestion, one which is not unusual for desperate parents.


Rafael: Did you know that your parents live in the Elbamare School District? It's a great public school with a nine rating, plus music, art, tk. We can enroll Mateo next year using their address. 
Jane: And lie about where we live? Of course. Of course your option is to lie. Why am I surprised? 
Rafael: That's not fair. 
Jane: But it's true. I mean, that's what you do. You try to game the system. Why wouldn't you? You grew up rich and entitled, and you think that the rules don't apply to you. 
Rafael: It was your grandmother's idea. Yeah. So as you're climbing off your high horse, try not to break your other leg. 
Families do lie about where they live to give their kids a better chance. Jane finds out just how many when she talks to her Abuela about the suggestion.


Jane: I don't understand. You told Rafael that we should like to get Mateo into a better school? 
Abuela (in Spanish): It's what we did for you.
Jane: What?
Abuela (in Spanish): Remember those years you were in public school? When you were relocated because our school was overcrowded? Well, it wasn't overcrowded. It just wasn't good. 
Jane: You used someone else's address?
Abuela (in Spanish): A friend from church. Until we could save enough to get you into Catholic school. What else could we do? It was your education. Your future. It meant everything- which you would have realized two years ago, but you had Rafael's money to help you. 
In many states, this is the sad truth. Your zip code has far too much to do with your destiny. However, Jane the Virgin takes place in Miami, and Florida has an incredibly robust school choice system. There are tax credit scholarships (to be fair, it's probably too late in the year for Mateo to apply), charter schools, magnet schools and online education. They even have, wait for it, open enrollment. That means that, if the school district in which Jane's parents live hasn't reached capacity, they can just enroll Mateo there. They don't need to lie about it. 

When, in the course of the show, Rafael had all the money in the world, the show was quick to remind viewers that he was very fortunate and there are others who were not so. Why not take this opportunity to say that, since they live in Florida, Mateo has incredible educational advantages that they might not have had in other states? Might it be because Florida's school choice program is one of Jeb Bush's legacies? Because school choice goes against teachers union control and is, therefore, seen as a conservative option, making it unacceptable to celebrate on television?

Jane and Rafael, like all parents, only want the best for their son. It's hard to blame them for wanting to do whatever they have to do to give Mateo the best future possible. It's just strange that the show chose to paint a grim picture of limited options and shady dealings to get it for him when a world of options is freely theirs for the choosing. They're lucky they live in Florida, where they can choose a better path for their son without having to lie - or break the bank.

&&&&&

+++++

NBC's 'Will & Grace' Features Vice President Mike Pence's Picture at Gay Conversion Camp

2017-10-20

I watch NBC's Will & Grace so you don't have to, and be grateful I did. In the October 19 episode, "Grandpa Jack," Jack (Sean Hayes) is surprised to find out that his son Elliot is now a father himself. So, Jack is now grandfather to Skip who, his parents suspect, is gay (like Jack). Why didn't Jack know about his grandson? Because Elliot moved to Texas and became a conservative, so they no longer have a relationship. The entire episode used that as an excuse to bash conservatives, including Vice President Mike Pence. 

When Jack is explaining to Will (Eric McCormack) why he lost touch with his son, he explained it by saying, "Because he moved to Texas, married someone super conservative, and he didn't even invite me to his wedding." Maybe that's not because they're bigots, but because you are, Jack. He hates his own son just for being a conservative.

When Will tells Jack to spend time with Skip and connect with him, Jack replies, "How am I supposed to connect with a kid from Texas? I can't fish or hunt or tell a woman what to do with her fetus." As if we didn't know liberals were obsessed with abortion, that's what he thought of when he met his grandson? That Texas protects the unborn, and it's a bad thing? Of course, Texas hasn't outlawed abortion, but they just want abortion clinics to be held to the same health standards as ambulatory surgical centers. For Jack, I guess that's a bad thing.

When Elliot (Michael Angarano) makes his appearance, he is a conservative caricature. He's wearing a cowboy hat (which Jack refers to as a "costume") and, when Will says, "Look at you, you're a real Texan now," he replies,  "I am. I drank the kool-aid and can no longer separate church and state." It's not conservatives who have a problem with that separation. We are fighting nonstop for separation of church and state, even taking it to the Supreme Court, but the left is constantly trying to impose the state upon the church. A separation sounds pretty ideal to conservatives. 

If your eyes weren't rolling yet, it turns out they're on the east coast for a very specific reason - to send Skip to a "pray away the gay" camp. While conversion therapy is something that the media has often tried to tie Vice President Mike Pence to, the accusations have just never stuck, except in liberals' minds.

The whole camp is, of course, ridiculous. Here's our introduction.

 


 

He's got boys being boys in his hand 
He's got girls being girls in his hand 
He's got boys-only-marryin'-girls in his hand 
He's got the whole-natural-order-of-things where-people-act- like-the-lord-intended in his hands. 
He's got suits and dresses on the right person 
He's got boys chasing girls appropriately
He's got boys... 
The camp is run by an ex-lesbian woman and ex-gay man - who are married to each other - and the giant picture of Vice President Pence on the wall was also an interesting touch. Anything to keep pushing an oft-debunked myth, I suppose, right?

Debunked myths, conservative stereotypes, and overwrought situations?

It looks like Will & Grace knows they're not going to win anybody over by being honest.

&&&&&

+++++

'American Horror Story' Attacks The Conservative Patriarchy For Defunding Planned Parenthood (Which is Still Funded)

2017-10-18

With every episode, American Horror Story: Cult focuses on a different pet issue for liberals. In the October 17 episode, titled "Valerie Solanas Died for Your Sins: Scumbag" (no, seriously), they spent the episode on radical feminism in the 1960s and the horrible thing that is the "oppressive patriarchy" under which they want us to think we all live in 2017. 

Valerie Solanas is the real-life woman who tried to assassinate Andy Warhol in 1968. A militant feminist, she wrote the SCUM Manifesto (SCUM being an acronym for Society for Cutting Up Men) which urged women to "overthrow the government, eliminate the money system, institute complete automation and eliminate the male sex."

When Solanas wanted Andy Warhol to produce her play titled Up Your Ass (also, seriously) and he declined, she tried to murder him, after which she spent time in prison and a facility for the criminally insane. I will now casually mention that the character of the man-hating feminist Valerie Solanas was portrayed by Lena Dunham in this episode.

We see the political life of Solanas as she rants against men and becomes crazier and crazier - so pretty much Dunham plays herself, except with a wig and bad accent. But then we are told that Solanas created a killer SCUM cult that acts on her manifesto's calls for a violent feminist revolution and was actually responsible for the Zodiac killer murders.

Back in the present day, Valerie's lover, Bebe (Frances Conroy), has taken it upon herself to wear the mantle and make sure women across America know how terribly oppressed they are, as Valerie has passed away. She reaches out to tv reporter Beverly Hope (Adina Porter) to get an introduction to the rest of the women of Kai's (Evan Peters) cult to discuss his patriarchal behavior towards them, and the patriarchy in general.


Ivy: Who's this?
Beverly: Her name is Bebe Babbitt. She found me, and she wants to help us. 
Bebe: You ladies have really stepped in it. 
Ivy: Shouldn't she be talking to Kai? 
Beverly: No. That's the whole point. We thought this whole thing would get us some damn respect. He promised us a seat at the table, but now that he has this bullshit seat and national fame, he's doing what men always do: Push the women aside.
Bebe: Silly girls are all stupid and doomed. History may change, but herstory always repeats itself. 
Winter: It's true.They con women into electing them, then they defund Planned Parenthood and force us to get transvaginal ultrasounds before we can get an abortion.
Who in the world are these candidates of whom Winter speaks? Democrats certainly aren't defunding Planned Parenthood or fighting for the rights of the unborn. As for Republicans, it's pretty unlikely that they're out on the campaign trail saying that they're going to support Planned Parenthood and abortion once they're in office and change their minds. If anything, candidates who say they will defund Planned Parenthood can't get it done. As far as transvaginal ultrasounds go, one would be fairly hard pressed to find any other procedure in which the medical professional doesn't use any kind of imaging either to show the patient or to use as a guide for themselves. Does Winter not want women to have full information before making a choice? An abortion is huge. It ends a life. Requiring that a woman and the abortionist do due diligence is hardly patriarchal. Finally, there are plenty of women who serve as elected officials. Why ignore them? 

More than likely Winter is blaming women for getting conned into voting Trump into office. Hillary Clinton recently said that women, especially the white ones, were "under tremendous pressure from fathers and husbands and boyfriends and male employers not to vote for 'the girl.'" Others agreed, saying that, as she lost amongst married, white, heterosexual, women, they must have been pressured into it by their husbands and/or fathers. The Chicago Tribune told white women to "own up to it: you're the reason Hillary Clinton lost." I don't think Trump voters are going to have that hard of a time owning up to being responsible for Clinton losing, but ok. The New York Times had a roundup of responses to people discovering that women might vote for someone who wasn't a woman, as though we aren't beings who think beyond gender and vote on substance. They believe we are unable to think for ourselves, so we will simply vote based on gender. When that is proven false, many of them say that the reason must be that we can't think for ourselves, so we let the menfolk do the thinking for us.  

In microcosm of their cult, however, these ladies are correct about the male candidate bait and switch. Kai has told each of the women what they need to hear to get them into his cult, and he's using the power to his own ends. He's even gotten one of the women to fake an assassination attempt (and then a very real suicide and mass shooting) to give him national attention. This helped lead him to win his election for City Council by 20 points, which was extra exciting for him because it got him a retweet from none other than Eric Trump.

The women in this episode are the ones selling women short. They should examine their own biases against women, because the problem doesn't seem to be the patriarchy, as much as they like it as an umbrella scapegoat for all of society's ills. I wouldn't mind Winter telling me more about these candidates who can get Planned Parenthood defunded, though. 

&&&&&

+++++

On Hulu's 'The Mindy Project,' Republican Character Thinks 'Liberal Media Just Made Up' Existence of Poor, Uninsured

2017-10-11

In its October 10 episode, "Jeremy & Anna's Meryl Streep Costume Party," The Mindy Project on Hulu saw one of the doctors of Shulman and Associates, Jody Kimball-Kinney (Garret Dillahunt), tapping into his altruistic side. After being shamed by a woman who runs a free clinic, he finds the practice's old bus and starts offering certain types of healthcare free-of-charge to women who otherwise could not afford it. When he realizes how many women don't have insurance, the Republican character misses the point entirely. The writers did, too. 

He offers to help a patient get access to free birth control pills when she says she can't afford them due to lack of insurance, and says, "My word, I've been hearing that a lot today. I thought that was something the liberal media just made up, like police brutality." Obviously, he is supposed to be a caricature of a Republican.


Conservatives know perfectly well that lack of insurance is a problem. What the writers of The Mindy Project seem to have forgotten is that we're still living under Obamacare, so that's on the Democrats. The "Affordable Health Care Act" has made insurance unaffordable to many. Ironically, Obamacare adding mandates like "free" birth control to all health insurance plans has caused premiums to go up, which could be the very reason this woman can't afford insurance and has to rely on Dr. Kimball-Kinney's free clinic.

Under Obamacare, millions of people lost their insurance while others saw their premiums and deductibles double and triple, rendering them underinsured with health plans that are virtually useless. Liberal pundit Melissa Harris-Perry went on MSNBC as far back as 2014 saying that Democrats should be proud of the number of people who liked their coverage but couldn't keep their coverage. "Yeah, you can't keep your crappy plans," she said on MSNBC, "Just deal with that!"

These are people who can't afford to "just deal with that," as this episode shows. They're on a "crappy" plan because they can't afford a better one, especially with the exponentially increased costs under Obamacare. Some forgo seeing the doctor because they can't afford the higher copays and deductibles or forgo health insurance entirely because they can't even afford the "crappy" plan. Let them eat cake, Ms. Harris-Perry? 

By the end, Dr. Kimball-Kinney is shocked to learn that he feels good after helping people out with free services - get it? Republicans are greedy and would never help someone out of the goodness of their heart, but only for profit.

If Dr. Kimball-Kinney is watching liberal news, he might be surprised by the number of uninsured and underinsured, but not because he'd assume it was spin. The surprise would more likely be due to the fact that they aren't doing much reporting on how many people are being left high and dry due to Obamacare. While I appreciate The Mindy Project for bringing it up, they placed the fault squarely in the wrong camp. 

&&&&&

+++++

'Will & Grace' Stuns With Lack of Self-Awareness In Speech About Rights

2017-10-05

After a decade-long hiatus, Will & Grace returned to television last week to completely embarrass itself by putting a political agenda ahead of decent writing. When it comes to the follow-up, the October 10 episode "Who's Your Daddy," all I can say is that it's not as bad.

Only one of the two key storylines was contrived to opine on the issues of the day (as opposed to the entire episode last week), and there was some actual humor to the writing, unfortunately, that doesn't mean it was good. After all, "better than last week" is a very low bar.  

In one of the storylines this week, a much younger man, Blake, is interested in Will. When Will has him over for dinner, he finds that they have very little in common. His date doesn't like Madonna, and his coming out wasn't nearly as difficult as Will's. In fact, he came out at age EIGHT and his divorced parents threw him coming-out parties!


Will: Well, for me, my coming-out was pretty typical. My mom cried, my dad drank, and my grandmother got rabies. Unrelated, but just a rough weekend all around. 
Blake: That's brutal. 
Will: Yeah. How was it for you? 
Blake: Oh, um... I told my parents I was gay when I was eight. They were divorced. They both threw me a coming-out party on the same weekend. That was hard.
Will: That's not a coming-out story. How's James Franco supposed to win the Oscar playing that? God, is that the new gay? You guys grow up in a big happiness bubble? 
Blake: Isn't that good? 
Will: No. It's so nice, it's practically abuse. I mean, how's it supposed to get better if it was always fine? 
Blake: Are you mad at me because I'm happy? 
Will: Yes. No, I... Probably. Doesn't matter. 
I can understand why Will might be jealous that Blake's coming out was so much smoother than his own, but he seems genuinely irritated as the episode progresses that it's been an easier road for younger gay people. Shouldn't that be what any social justice warrior wants - to make it better for those to come? After all, the slogan to gay teens is "It Gets Better."

However, the larger issue here is the fact that Blake as a third-grader was contemplating ideas of sexual orientation, and that his parents were celebrating a young child's sexuality. Then again, kids are coming out as transgendered in kindergarten now, so maybe Blake was a late bloomer by today's standards. 

Later, it reaches a boiling point when Will decides to give a lecture on the history of gay rights instead of continuing their date. 


Will: Like, it's great that you have no shame. I mean, you missed the joy of signing up for football to fool your parents. But you guys can never forget the struggle that came before you, the people that fought and loved and--and died, so that you could walk down the street in skinny jeans with rights you never even knew you never had. The minute we forget what we went through to get here is the minute it could all be taken away. 
It's strange that the left can't extrapolate to apply this to Constitutional rights, and that includes people involved with this very show. Any of our rights could disappear if we take them for granted, if we do not remain vigilant, and if we forget that people fought and died for them. Why is it that they won't apply this same thinking to the very rights enshrined in our Constitution? Religious freedom, free speech and gun rights, which are the cornerstone of our republic, should certainly be given at least the same amount of consideration as a new "right" to gay marriage that the Supreme Court made up only 2 years ago, shouldn't they?

&&&&&

+++++

New Magic School Bus to Kids: Use Clean Energy or Monsters Will Eat You

2017-10-05

The Magic School Bus is back in the new Netflix series The Magic School Bus Rides Again!  Overall, it's still a nice, fun 13-episode series like we remember from when we were kids, but with some left turns. There is a pretty predictable take on climate change propaganda for little kids, but that wasn't the worst. That dubious honor goes to the episode that teaches kids that a monster will eat them if they don't use alternative clean energy sources.

In the show, Miss Frizzle takes her class on educational field trips with the help of a magical school bus that allow them to learn about things like magnets, allergies, and states of matter. In the original series, the kids were taught by Miss Valerie Felicity Frizzle (Lily Tomlin), who is now Professor Frizzle. She hands the charge of her classroom over to her sister, Miss Fiona Frizzle (voiced by Saturday Night Live's Kate McKinnon). 

Most of the episodes are innocuous enough. The kids have a scientific question of some kind in the classroom, and Miss Frizzle takes them to the Magic School Bus where an incredible field trip helps them to understand. This might be a trip to discover how different animals blend into their surroundings to hide from predators, how the brain coordinates different parts of the body, or what lies deep under the sea. 

But episode 10, "The Tales Glaciers Tell," is the first of two questionable episodes. Miss Frizzle's student Dorothy Ann (also known as D.A.) has been asked to join her storyteller parents in telling a story of her own for a crowd. However, she's more into data than storytelling, so the kids take a trip to a glacier, allowing her to tell the story of - you guessed it - climate change, which is met with a standing ovation by the audience.


Really? This is what kids are getting excited about? I doubt it.

Of course, conserving energy is a good thing and we should be kind to the earth, but this climate change hysteria is taking over. Usually, somebody will say that 97 percent of climate scientists agree that humans are causing global warming, and I was surprised that figure didn't come up in this episode. Could it be that they know how easily debunked that number is? Given the way Dorothy Ann presented man-made climate change as fact, I doubt it.

This issue tends to play incredibly well in the mainstream media, as they use climate change as the universal bad-guy, so I'm sure there were plenty of parents who actually thought this episode was a good idea. I find it hard to believe any parents were happy about this next one, though.

Episode 12, "Monster Power," teaches kids that a monster will eat them if they don't use alternative clean energy sources. Albert, one of the students, has seen a movie in which the evil monster loves pollution and is "coming for us next for what we've done to this planet!" With the class camping in the woods, Miss Frizzle and the other students help him come up with clean energy alternatives (wind, water, etc) so they won't be eaten. Instead, Miss Frizzle could tell him that monsters aren't real, but I guess that didn't occur to her.


While it makes sense to teach kids the science of pollution and about all kinds of energy (I wouldn't have minded some talk about oil in the dinosaur episode, to be honest), why would they tell kids that a monster will eat them for using the wrong energy source? I may not have the teaching credentials of Miss Frizzle, but I'm pretty sure that's not scientifically accurate. They must really hate fossil fuels as much as their friends on the left. Keeping in mind that the TV-Y rating for this series means it's for kids 2-6, I'm sure there are going to be some parents pretty irked at bedtime when kids are scared of the blot monster.

Overall, this is a cute series and fun bit of nostalgia for those of us who enjoyed the original books (or TV series) as kids, but I could have done without the climate change propaganda, and telling kids that traditional energy sources attract monsters is way over the top. Can't kids just learn without an anti-scientific social agenda?

&&&&&

