+++++

SCOTUS Being Asked To Settle The Online Sales Tax Question

2017-11-05

We haven’t revisited the question of the Marketplace Fairness Act and the issue of collecting sales taxes for online purchases in quite a while, but with the current tax overhaul hanging on a knife edge and a new court case possibly heading for the Supreme Court it’s as good of a time as any. The reason that a federal level decision may become more and more important is that the various states are all making it up as they go along. Yet another of these disputes flared up in America’s heartland with the case of State of South Dakota v Wayfair, Inc. et al over the past couple of years.

SEE ALSO: “Night of the Long Knives”: Hardliners out as Saudi royal family conducts purge

In this case, a number of sellers, including Wayfair, Overstock.com and Newegg, argued that a 2016 state law requiring them to collect and remit sales tax from consumers in South Dakota was not in keeping with the U.S. Supreme Court’s 1992decision in Quill vs. North Dakota. That case, arising at the dawn of the widespread use of the internet and the earliest attempts at e-commerce, established that only sellers with a physical presence in the state could be forced to collect sales tax.

Now, North Dakota has petitioned the U.S. Supreme Court for a writ of certiorari, asking them to hear their appeal and allow the law to go through. If this happens, it’s going to change the entire landscape of online sales and how states deal with questions of revenue from same. (RILA)

Key excerpts from the Retail Litigation Center’s amicus brief in South Dakota v. Wayfair, et. al:

“[W]aiting and watching as businesses and States maneuver around Quill is like watching to see how a badly broken bone knits on its own before deciding whether or not to set it back in proper alignment. The business and legal structures that are growing up around Quill are crooked. Some may prove workable, after a fashion, but they will be necessarily inferior to the structures that would arise from a level playing field and a coherent Commerce Clause jurisprudence.”

“[W]here the Court intervenes in interstate commerce with a “fixed” judge-made rule, it has the obligation to review from time to time whether that rule is reflecting or distorting current “economic realit[y].” That is exactly what the Court did in Quill, when it gave the physical-presence requirement a 25-year checkup. Now another 25 years have passed, and the need for another checkup is more pressing than ever.”

“It is imperative that, as the retail industry adapts to the growing ubiquity of the internet and e-commerce, that transformation is driven by business efficiencies and not tax dodges, so that community-based retailers are not forced to abandon their physical presence in order to avail themselves of Quill’s “tax shelter.” The invisible hand of the market, and not the visible thumb of Quill on the scales, should guide retail’s growth.”
I’ve never been comfortable with the arguments being made on either side of this debate. (Or more correctly, I should say that I’ve gone back and forth on it a couple of times as new information comes in.) Nobody wants to pay more taxes, obviously, and the initial goal of the government in relieving the tax burden to help spur the growth of e-commerce was an admirable one. But at the same time, the citizens of each state are the ones who, through their elected representatives, determine whether or not their state will have a sales tax.

E-commerce is no longer in danger of being snuffed out by prices going up a bit. That’s not the main appeal of online shopping, though it’s certainly part of it. Originally there was tremendous distrust of the new technology and fear about entering your credit card number into a keyboard and sending off into the unknown wilderness of the internet. That fear proved well founded many times, but the system has become increasingly more secure over the years. It’s also the convenience of online shopping which is the real draw, allowing you to not only shop from home but see more options than you could within reasonable driving distance at conventional retailers.

From those perspectives, I can understand how a more modern interpretation might find that the consumer is always the consumer no matter where they are. And the “store,” for purposes of online shopping, is the buyer’s laptop, tablet or phone. And if there’s a sales tax in your state, then the state can make a claim that your purchases should be taxed.

In the end, it won’t be my interpretation which matters, but that of the court. There’s definitely a problem with the taxes being unevenly applied in one state as compared to another. If the Supremes agree to hear this one and render a judgement, they will either confirm the decision in Quill or upend the process and allow all the states to pass laws similar to the one in North Dakota. Either way, at least we’ll have an answer.


&&&&&

+++++

Baltimore’s Latest “No Murder Weekend” Went About As Well As The Last One

2017-11-05

We talked about this last week while the plans were still being finalized and, as promised, the city of Baltimore launched their third effort at a “No Murder Weekend” on Friday morning. The last time they attempted this, back in August, they made it roughly 31 hours into the planned 72 hour event before someone was shot and killed. This time they barely made it past midnight Friday before the effort failed. (Baltimore Sun)

SEE ALSO: “Night of the Long Knives”: Hardliners out as Saudi royal family conducts purge

Activists rebooted Baltimore’s ceasefire weekend for a second time this year, aiming for 72 hours free of violence. But on the second day, when organizers encouraged residents to bring awareness to the city’s 300 homicides by decorating places where people have been killed, the organizers’ goal was thwarted.

An off-duty Washington police officer was shot and killed early Saturday morning in the Panway/Braddish Avenue neighborhood.

But the ceasefire movement didn’t stop.

Around 2:30 p.m., ceasefire co-organizer Ellen Gee, dressed in white with burning sage in hand, circled the parking lot where the officer, Tony Anthony Mason Jr., 40, was found shot hours earlier.
Officer Mason, a sergeant with the Washington Metropolitan Police Department, was found shot at 12:45 in the morning along with another woman who was shot in the leg. The woman, thankfully, is expected to survive. Officer Mason died in the hospital.

But while this is obviously horrible news yet again, the other activities taking place are enough to perhaps give even some of the most skeptical among us a glimmer of hope. Even the activist the Baltimore Sun article features, Ellen Gee, should probably be encouraged. I’ll grant you that if this were a less deadly serious topic, the prospect of a woman in robes burning sage and chanting might have caused a few snickers. But at least she’s trying. This is Baltimore we’re talking about. It’s a war zone at this point. Somebody has to do something because the municipal government has completely failed the citizens.

And it wasn’t just Ms. Gee trying to spiritually cleanse the murder scene. Despite the setback, Israel Baptist Church organized a day long basketball tournament on some of the public courts, getting young men out there shooting hoops, getting some free food and participating in community activities. The logic there was that if they were on the courts they wouldn’t either be shooting anyone or getting shot. Flash mobs were engaged in singing and dancing in public parks, attracting people to safe(er) spaces with law enforcement coverage.

So even if they couldn’t hold the murder rate to zero for the entire weekend, this is still promising. The citizens are fed up and are starting to take matters into their own hands. Tens of thousands of posters and leaflets were distributed, encouraging people to get out of their homes, take back the streets and drive the criminals into the shadows.

For a look at the real-life effect this gang violence is having on people, take a moment and read this editorial from Sunny Luisa Cooper. It’s titled, My nephew was Baltimore homicide #289. These are real families losing their children to the gangs, either through joining them, becoming collateral damage in the gang wars, or both. Gun control laws and background checks aren’t having any impact on the gangs. Law enforcement is outmanned and all too often outgunned. But if the community refused to accept this any longer they can have the biggest impact on this 21st century plague.

Best of luck to the residents of Baltimore. You’re going to need all the prayers coming your way in the task ahead of you, but if this trend keeps up there just may be a light at the end of the tunnel.

&&&&&

+++++

Is It Time For Medical Screening For Travel In And Out Of The Country?

2017-11-05

I realize that most of you don’t need yet another thing to worry about, what with everything else going on these days, but there’s an article at the Washington Post this weekend that you might want to take a peek at. It deals with a highly disturbing report of a “new” virus in Africa (it’s not actually new) which has health professionals highly concerned. They’re talking about a disease which is casually being referred to as “monkeypox” and it’s made the jump to human beings. If you’re at all familiar with our species’ communal history with other poxes, you can probably guess that this is potentially some seriously bad news.

SEE ALSO: “Night of the Long Knives”: Hardliners out as Saudi royal family conducts purge

A cousin to the deadly smallpox virus, the monkeypox virus initially infects people through contact with wild animals and can then spread from person to person. The disease produces fever and a rash that often turns into painful lesions that can feel like cigarette burns. It kills up to 1 in 10 of its victims, similar to pneumonic plague, and is particularly dangerous in children. Monkeypox is on the U.S. government list of pathogens such as anthrax and Ebola with the greatest potential to threaten human health. There is no cure.

Over the past year, reports of monkeypox have flared alarmingly across Africa, one of several animal-borne diseases that have raised anxiety around the globe. The Congolese government invited CDC researchers here to track the disease and train local scientists. Understanding the virus and how it spreads during an outbreak is key to stopping it and protecting people from the deadly disease.
At this point you may be wondering what this has to do with immigration and travel policy, as implied in the title. It’s an uncomfortable subject, but the two are actually closely related. This monkeypox virus is on the move, though thus far it seems to have remained in sub-Saharan Africa. As the CDC points out, at this point there is no cure and the disease kills 10% of the people it infects, including otherwise healthy, young adults. Now compare that to the highly justifiable panic over the Zika virus a couple of years ago. We dodged a bullet there, metaphorically speaking, but we don’t seem to have learned our lessons quite yet. To do so we might want to look a bit further back into history.

The Black Plague is now believed to have originally come from China, where it did not wipe out the entire population. The people there had evolved with it and developed at least some limited immunity. But when travel and trade by ships became common, the virus spread via fleas on black rats to the west. It took out more than half of the population of Europe by some estimates.

Smallpox is also believed to have started in China and Korea, spreading via trade to Japan and then North Africa. The crusades brought it to Europe. Colonization and the slave trade brought it to South and later North America. The total death tolls are still being debated to this day.

The 1918 outbreak of the Spanish Flu (as it was incorrectly called) also came from China, moving into Canada with thousands of imported workers. It wound up killing 50 million people globally and was the chief reason that the next United States census recorded one of the smaller increases in the American population for that era. People were literally dying in the streets. And yet again, as National Geographic reported, the country of origin fared much better than the rest of the world.

Historian Christopher Langford has shown that China suffered a lower mortality rate from the Spanish flu than other nations did, suggesting some immunity was at large in the population because of earlier exposure to the virus.
With all of that in mind, is it time to expand our idea of “extreme” vetting for immigration to include medical screening? For that matter, should we have a fresh look at medical screening of even American tourists who leave the country and come back? Surely the medical technology has advanced far enough to be able to do this without oppressively excessive delays.

Yes, we’ll get into a huge food fight with privacy advocates over such an idea, particularly when it comes to citizens. (Non-citizens seeking entry should have far fewer options to complain.) But I’m not talking about full medical histories here. Just tests for a list of the known, virulent diseases we’re watching out for, such as Monkeypox, Zika and the latest edition of the flu. Given how fast a virulent disease can spread once modern transportation gives it a head start, this surely has to be something to consider. It took the Black Plague centuries to finish making its rounds, but ships were slow and few in number by comparison, and the rest of the scant number of travelers were walking or using draft animals. Today, planes, trains, automobiles, buses and subways can accelerate such transmissions from years to a matter of days or even hours.

It seems to me that part of any screening process for new migrants should include such testing. And both business and leisure travel to other countries by citizens should include some sort of screening either before they leave to come home or as soon as they arrive. Expensive? Yes. Time consuming? At least to a degree, certainly. Invasive? You could probably say that. But do you really want to rerun 1918 all over again?


&&&&&

+++++

Catalonian Leader’s New Agenda: Stay Out Of Jail

2017-11-04

Carles Puigdemont may no longer be the official leader of the Catalans but he has a lot of business to attend to. Hiding out in Brussels, he has declared (through his attorney) that he will not be officially seeking asylum… at least for now. But the situation ratcheted up in intensity yesterday when Spain issued arrest warrants for Puigdemont and several of his aides who have taken up residence in Belgium. This is setting off a predictable (and likely lengthy) chain of events in the courts of both countries. (Boston Globe)

SEE ALSO: “Night of the Long Knives”: Hardliners out as Saudi royal family conducts purge

A Spanish judge issued an international arrest warrant on Friday for former members of the Catalan Cabinet who were last seen in Brussels, including the ousted separatist leader Carles Puigdemont who said he was prepared to run for his old job even while battling extradition in Belgium.

The National Court judge filed the request with the Belgian prosecutor to detain Puigdemont and his four aides, and issued separate international search and arrest warrants to alert Interpol in case they flee Belgium.

Puigdemont’s Belgian lawyer has said that his client will fight extradition to Spain without seeking political asylum.
The sticking point, for now, isn’t whether Puigdemont can beat the rap or somehow establish a permanent residence elsewhere. It’s how long he can tie the case up in court. In case you missed a minor footnote in the linked article above, he’s currently planning to run for his old office in the upcoming elections which were called by Madrid. So for the moment, Puigdemont is basically trying to run out the clock. (Associated Press)

Ousted Catalan leader Carles Puigdemont was a wanted man after Spain issued a European warrant for his arrest — and the main question Saturday was how long he could delay the extradition process in Belgium and stay out of the hands of Spanish justice…

But the longer he can delay, the more he can stretch out the legal timetable for any extradition process to Spain and perhaps be a factor or even run in the Dec. 21 regional election that Spanish authorities have called for Catalonia. Legal experts have told The Associated Press that the whole process in Belgium from arrest to extradition, including appeals, could take about two months.

Belgian Justice Minister Koen Geens said his government will have no influence over the future of Puigdemont or the other Catalan officials because the European arrest warrant “is a completely legal procedure.”
There’s some cat and mouse type strategy going on here. Belgian officials are saying that the extradition process is legal, but with the normal set of appeals available it could take “up to two months” before Puigdemont would be physically turned over. In the meantime, the election is roughly seven weeks away, falling on December 21st. Talk about cutting it close.

But what’s Puigdemont’s end game scenario here? Yes, he’s still at least somewhat popular at home, but let’s just say for the sake of speculation that he manages to legally get on the ballot and somehow wins. What next? The moment he sets foot back in his native land to be sworn in to his old office he’ll just be arrested. Keep in mind that he was in elective office when this entire mess kicked off and that didn’t stop the federal government in Madrid from simply dissolving his regional government and bringing charges against him. Since those charges have yet to be satisfied there doesn’t seem to be anything preventing them from arresting him whether he wins or not.

Barring an actual revolution (which thankfully nobody seems to support), the Catalonian bid for independence seems to be over and Puigdemont stands charged with very serious crimes. Madrid appears to have won the court battle on the secession question and the Catalans have no legal path to independence short of winning a literal civil war. If Puigdemont wants to be the leader of anything he would need to transition from politician to general and take up arms, a prospect which looks increasingly unlikely to the great relief of all concerned.

At this point, discretion may indeed prove to be the better part of valor. Perhaps Puigdemont should simply change his mind and apply for assylum after all. It sounds like the Belgians are at least willing to entertain the idea.

&&&&&

+++++

Are Frank Underwood’s Days Numbered?

2017-11-04

On Halloween, I wrote about the seeming inability of Netflix to make up their minds in terms of what to do about Kevin Spacey and his leading role in House of Cards. The streaming service is still going back and forth, with reports emerging that the series has been canceled, that it will be canceled after season 6 and other options. When writing about it, I asked what might be seen as a rather naive question. Couldn’t they just kill off his character in a definitive way and salvage the popular franchise?

SEE ALSO: “Night of the Long Knives”: Hardliners out as Saudi royal family conducts purge

But if they really wanted to make a statement about not profiting off pederasty, there was surely a workable and at least somewhat less expensive option. Couldn’t they have written the character out of season 6? Yes, they’d have to go back to the drawing board on the plot lines and do some reshooting, but imagine the gasps of surprise when the first episode opened with the funeral of the President. (Spacey is still the President, right? I don’t actually watch the show.) To really drive the point home it could have turned out that Spacey’s character had been revealed to have been involved in a horrible sex scandal and some scored lover took him out.
I received some interesting feedback on that one via both social media and emails. I was, for the most part, informed that I’m rather ignorant of how Hollywood works (true) or the details of the plot of House of Cards (also true). It would, I was assured, be virtually impossible to kill off the character of Frank Underwood. The reasons given ranged from the massive expenses involved in re-shoots and unacceptable delays in production to his critical role in the overall plot, gutting the show of all its interest to viewers.

All of those sounded like valid complaints to me. What do I know? I’m not the Hot Air Hollywood reporter. And then I saw this item from Business Insider and Variety.

‘House of Cards’ producers are talking about killing off Kevin Spacey’s Frank Underwood

Producers are exploring several options for getting “House of Cards” back on track in the wake of sexual assault and harassment allegations against star Kevin Spacey.

One scenario being discussed is to kill off Spacey’s character, the villainous Frank Underwood, and have the show’s sixth and final season concentrate on his equally manipulative wife Claire, played by Robin Wright, according to insiders.

The Netflix series is produced by Media Rights Capital. The producers worry that the allegations against Spacey make moving forward with the actor untenable.
In the comments from Netflix released by BI, they make what sounds like a sympathetic, humanist point. They point out that, “300 cast and crew members are employed by the series and would be put out of work if the sixth season does not move forward. The feeling is that they did nothing wrong and should not be penalized for Spacey’s behavior.”

That certainly sounds all warm and fuzzy, but I’m honestly not buying it. While the statement is, on its face, entirely true, shows get cancelled all the time with large numbers of cast and crew being sent out on the street to look for a new gig. But that’s what happens when your show fails to attract an audience and deliver revenue. Sympathy from the big-wigs is generally in short supply at a time like that.

This is different. The show is a massive success and brings in plenty of subscribers. They don’t want to lose that offering if it can be kept viable without undue embarrassment to the brand. What they’re really trying to do here is save House of Cards, not the crew. And if it takes a reasonable investment to kill off the character and keep the ship afloat, why wouldn’t they?

Now that insiders have claimed that Spacey made the set a “toxic work environment” and multiple sources suggest he was involved in pederasty, keeping Spacey around probably exceeds the embarrassment quotient I mentioned above. Netflix is clearly ready to move on without Kevin Spacey. But can House of Cards survive without Frank Underwood?

&&&&&

+++++

Following Union Vote, Gothamist Goes Dark

2017-11-03

If you’re a fan of the local, metropolitan news outlets Gothamist or DNAinfo, you’re waking up today to find a placeholder at both of their sites. Joe Ricketts, the CEO of the parent company owning both outlets, abruptly shut them both down yesterday. Whether you believe there’s a causal relationship between the events or not, it’s worth noting that the closure took place one week to the day after the staff of the outlets voted to unionize, joining the Writers Guild of America, East. (New York Daily News)

SEE ALSO: “Night of the Long Knives”: Hardliners out as Saudi royal family conducts purge

The billionaire owner of hyperlocal news sites DNAinfo and Gothamist shut them down Thursday — just a week after staffers voted to join a union.

Joe Ricketts, a supporter of President Trump who made billions as the founder of TD Ameritrade, yanked the sites at 5 p.m. and sent an email to employees to let them know they lost their jobs.

“I’ve made the difficult decision to begin the orderly wind down of the DNAinfo/Gothamist business,” Ricketts wrote.

“Reaching this decision wasn’t easy, and it wasn’t one I made lightly,” he said in the email, most of which was also posted online to replace the now-defunct sites.
Ricketts owns the Chicago Cubs as well as having been the founder of TD Ameritrade. So was the unionization the reason for shuttering the sites? There were at least hints of that last week in a memo from the company’s COO.

“Would a union be the final straw that caused the business to be closed? I don’t know. But it’s important that everyone keep in mind that this is not a business where ownership is keeping more than its fair share of the profits,” the email said.
You can read the letter from Ricketts explaining the closure here, but it’s fairly straightforward. Both DNAinfo and Gothamist had been losing money consistently. The boss had supposedly been planning on combining the two in an effort to improve efficiency, but the unionization move seemed to be taking the organization in the wrong direction.

Their stated desires in joining WGAE included more, “fair policies regarding compensation and benefits” among other things. When you’re working for a group that’s already consistently losing money, that’s probably not the best time to be pushing higher labor costs.

It’s a shame that things had to end this way. I’ve linked to Gothamist many times here over the past couple of years. Their “hyperlocal” approach to news coverage allowed them to really dig into a lot of stories in the Big Apple, many of which had national consequences or at least comprised a significant part of larger conversations. They covered police lethal force encounters, gang violence and the political careers of figures like Bill de Blasio, who still entertains hopes of national office by all accounts.

Is there a lesson to be learned here? Some will doubtless try to make this a story about union busting, but Ricketts probably explains it best in his letter. He wrote, “I’m hopeful that in time, someone will crack the code on a business that can support exceptional neighborhood storytelling for I believe telling those stories remains essential.”

A noble goal, but staffing up that sort of journalistic endeavor is expensive and they just weren’t making money. In the end, unless you have limitless resources to flush into a politically motivated effort, you just can’t keep operating under those conditions forever.



&&&&&

+++++

New Jobs At The DNC! (Cisgender, Straight, White Males Need Not Apply)

2017-10-31

Remember back during the summer when Clinton insider Mark Penn advised the Democratic Party to get out of the business of identity politics if they want to win back power in Washington? Somebody clearly missed that memo at the DNC. The Daily Wire has a bit of a scoop this week with a copy of an internal announcement from the DNC’s Data Services Manager, Madeleine Leader announcing some new job openings on the committee’s data management team.

SEE ALSO: “Night of the Long Knives”: Hardliners out as Saudi royal family conducts purge

That probably sounds about as interesting as watching paint dry since both parties hire plenty of worker bees for such positions all the time. But it’s the “personal note” from Ms. Leader at the bottom of the memo which is generating the most interest. She wants party insiders to send this announcement around to interested parties so they can submit their resumes, but only to the right sort of people.

Please let me know if you have any questions or concerns and feel free to forward on to your contacts. I personally would prefer that you not forward to cisgender straight white males, since they’re already in the majority.
The Daily Wire provides a comment from someone inside the DNC, speaking on condition of anonymity, indicating that these tactics aren’t even sitting well with their own team.

Clearly the DNC is doubling down on a failed strategy that has alienated staffers and voters alike. We want to be judged based on the quality of our work, not on identity politics. How can we trust the leadership of the DNC if they don’t even trust us?
Somebody clearly hasn’t learned anything from recent events. One admirable goal is to ensure that your organization practices openness, inclusion and equal opportunity. That means for any qualified candidate. But if your answer to what you view as inequality is to institute a different standard of exclusion, you’re only replacing one problem with another.

If you want to win you’ll need to build the best team possible. And that means identifying and hiring the best candidates. While it may annoy you to realize it, some of those candidates are going to wind up being men. Some will be straight. Some will be actual (you know… “cisgender”) men and not transgender. It’s also worth noting, as we did yesterday on the subject of eliminating sexual harassment in the workplace, that it’s patently illegal to set hiring criteria which excludes anyone from consideration based on all of these demographic pigeonholes. And unfortunately for you, that includes the dreaded patriarchy.

I never thought I’d live to see the day when I’d wind up agreeing with Mark Penn, but the Democrats really need to get their act together. I realize that everyone wants to win the next election cycle, but at the rate the Democrats are going they’ll be extinct in a generation. And a one party system would be no fun at all, or at least not for very long. That applies even if it’s your party that survives.

&&&&&

+++++

Ending Sexual Harassment In The Workplace: A Primer

2017-10-30

This pattern of women coming forward to expose incidents of sexual harassment and assault in their respective industries has had the beneficial effect of kicking off a national conversation seeking solutions. Unfortunately, that conversation doesn’t seem to be going very well. Assuming we accept the fact that these things are going on in many, if not most workplaces, the ultimate goal should be simple: stopping it. But how?

Some have made what sound like sensible suggestions. Some of the quickest and easiest would be workplace policies which eliminate situations where men are alone with women in closed off offices and rooms. (Because let’s face it… this is almost always men causing the problem. Maybe not 100% of the time. And yes, I saw Horrible Bosses too. But it’s usually the guys.) If all one on one meetings are held in rooms with open doors and visible to others in the facility, opportunities for abusive and criminal behavior are vastly reduced. Easy peasy, right?

Not so fast. Along comes Linda Hirshman at the Washington Post to explain why your idea is full of holes and probably unconstitutional.

In addition to the whiff of extortion (complain about men? Okay, sister, you get no meetings), there is so much wrong with these “solutions.” First, they would hurt women. Pence’s policy would shut every aspiring female staffer, inquiring journalist or prospective colleague out of opportunities for information, access, deal-making, even just plain, candid advice. Are venture capitalists, as recent reports have suggested, so uninterested in investing in women’s ventures that it would be no loss? And Noah’s superficially neutral proposal triggered a tweetstorm of hilarious takedowns.

As long as we’re shutting down spaces that might contain harassment, The New Yorker’s Emily Nussbaum tweeted “I suggest they close the Christopher St subway stop, where some dorkus malorkus once flashed me. Ban the 1 2 & 3!” What about two-stall bathrooms, Uber pool rides, the coffee room and closed conference rooms?

At any rate, we do not segregate the victim: Too often, men beat their domestic partners; could the government have a policy forbidding people from living together in private homes? Car theft is a very common kind of theft. Should we forbid leaving the garage?
Much of this part of the argument makes zero sense to me. Or at least it would if the policy was actually one-sided in the fashion Hirshman describes. She seems to feel that it would then only be men taking closed-door meetings with the male boss, disadvantaging female employees. (Tell that to the young men who ran into Kevin Spacey.) Of course, that ties into her next point. Making a policy which applies only to one gender and not the other is almost always going to be illegal. True enough.

So why not have a policy of no closed-door meetings for anyone? Hirshman shoots this idea down also, saying, “Because of the deep sexual divide of the workplace, banning all closed-door meetings would have a disproportionate effect on female workers.”

I honestly don’t even understand what that’s supposed to mean.

We need a solution and it’s probably not going to be perfect. (Clever criminals always find a way around things.) But we can certainly reduce both the opportunities and temptations in the workplace to make such unacceptable and frequently criminal behavior far less common. And answering some of the concerns being raised from the other side of the divide, more openness would also cut down on possible incidents of false accusations.

How often are you discussing something which really demands having the door closed for a one on one meeting? And even in cases where that’s true, could the meeting not be held in a room with with a window or glass door so people could see inside but not hear what’s being said? How about a walk and talk meeting? Or just stepping outside (weather permitting, of course)?

And what does Hirshman propose instead of this? She offers us Cole Porter lyrics with the advice, “Why, Can’t You BEHAVE?”

Seriously? Oh, gee. Why didn’t we think of that? We’ll just tell all the bosses and people in power to stop sexually harassing and assaulting women in the workplace. Problem solved! (/sarcasm)

Look, we’re not talking about a vast number of perpetrators, but you’re going to have to do better than that. Think of the murder rate in Chicago these days. It’s a city of approximately 2,705,000 people. And I’d be willing to bet that at least 2,704,000 of them have never shot anybody. But that’s no consolation to you when one of the remaining 1,000 shows up on your street.

This problem can’t be impossible to solve. In fact, I refuse to believe that finding a solution is nearly as difficult as some are making it out to be. But we’re going to have to stop shooting down every idea someone suggests before they’ve even been attempted.

&&&&&

