+++++

Post’s Capehart Whines White Millennials Aren’t As ‘Woke,’ Anti-Trump As Their Peers

2017-10-31

A new survey revealing white millennials aren’t as liberal as their “enlightened” minority peers has liberal columnists at The Washington Post spooked and afraid this Halloween. Jonathan Capehart admitted in today’s paper, that the survey’s results were “alarming” and “worrisome” because they revealed white millennials weren’t as virulently anti-Trump or radically liberal in their political viewpoints as their peers. The horror!

Capehart, who unabashedly sees racism at the drop of a hat, couldn’t help but make the focus of his column on how terrible it was that white young people had seemingly more diverse opinions on politics and cultural matters than their black, asian and hispanic millennial counterparts. He began his column by noting how proud he is of this generation for leading the way on same-sex marriage but admitted that race seems to be where the “enlightenment flickers out.” And by “enlightenment,” he meant, they actually don’t blindly follow the Democrats’ dogma on every issue:

“Surely, the forward-thinking millennial generation will deliver us from the sins of their elders. But the survey results — with the apt title “The ‘woke’ generation?: Millennial attitudes on race in the US” — dashed my hopes of that...As a new GenForward Survey of 18-to-34-year-olds reveals, white millennials are ‘quickly becoming the outlier group in this generation.’”
He notes from the start, that this survey took place just two weeks after “white supremacists, neo-Nazis and other assorted bigots unleashed terror on Charlottesville,” as if to remind readers that this one event should be the lens that every answer given should be centered around.

Capehart’s first complaint came in the answers young white people gave about their “feelings” about the 2016 election results. Capehart whined that whites list “hope” as the third emotion they feel, after “disgust” and “embarrassment.” Despite being “disgusted” with the election results, the young whites surveyed still felt “hopeful” for the future. How dare they! Apparently Capehart wants millennials to see doom and gloom around every corner, with Trump as president.

His second gripe came amidst the answers given about whether or not President Trump is a racist. Whites were pretty evenly split on this contentious question, but still the fact that nearly half believed he’s not a racist is “worrisome”:

The next warning sign comes in Figure 4 with a straightforward question. “Do you believe Donald Trump is a racist or is not a racist?” No surprise that overwhelming majorities of African Americans (82 percent), Asian Americans (74 percent) and Latinos (78 percent) say, “Yes.” White millennials, however, were almost split. A saving grace is that 51 percent said, “Yes.” But 48 percent saying no, despite all the evidence to the contrary, is beyond worrisome.
From there, Capehart wrote, things got worse.

“As you read deeper into the report, the warning signs give way to red alerts,” he fretted “Views on Black Lives Matter (BLM) and the so-called alt-right left me gobsmacked,” he admitted.

Though Capehart confessed he was surprised to learn that even 23 percent of whites thought BLM was a “racist” group, what really shocked him was that 51 percent of whites surveyed viewed race-based identity groups like white nationalists and BLM as “not very different” from each other.

Capehart uses this question to bash whites answers to other questions about removing confederate statues (62 percent oppose compared to 73 percent of blacks who favor removal), and their divided views about the confederate flag, to solidify his point that young white people are on their way to becoming racist bigots just like their white elders.

“I could go on with the other red alerts in the report,” the journalist admits, but he wraps up his article by highlighting one final question from the report. The question asked those surveyed to agree or disagree with this statement: “Irish, Italian, Jewish, and many other minorities overcame prejudice and worked their way up.Blacks should do the same without any special favors.”

The survey found that 59 percent of whites agreed with this statement, while an equal number of blacks disagreed with it. Capehart is reminded of another Post piece from a year ago entitled, “White millennials vote a lot more like whites than like millennials.”

“And this GenForward Survey shows that despite the millennial reputation, white millennials think a lot more like whites than millennials, who are increasingly people of color,” he writes.

“[T]he results I’ve shared with you and the others within the 44-page report show that millennials are as divided as the generations that came before them,” he admits disappointment.


&&&&&

+++++

President Trump, Prime Target at D.C. 'Humor' Event Honoring Letterman

2017-10-23

At an awards ceremony in Washington D.C. Sunday night honoring David Letterman, President Trump was the most talked about person in the room. Liberal celebrities and politicians, including Jimmy Kimmel, Amy Schumer, Michelle Obama and Sen. Al Franken all gathered at the Kennedy Center to honor the former CBS late night host with the Mark Twain Prize for American Humor, which rewarded Letterman for his “social criticism” and “insightful” humor.

That “social criticism” must’ve included Letterman's outbursts against President Trump as “damaged” and “soulless” because Trump bashing was the theme of the night.

From the very start, the liberal guests in attendance made their partisan political viewpoints known, loudly booing after Education Secretary Betsy DeVos was announced as a supporter of the Kennedy Center. The media’s latest favorite celebrity commentator Jimmy Kimmel headlined the event and set the anti-Trump tone that was to characterize the event with multiple cheap shots at the sitting president.

"When Dave left 17 long months ago, we had no idea how much trouble we were in," Kimmel joked. "I look at what's going on now and I think this is your fault. All of it. Everything was fine until you went off the air. You abandoned us. You went out for a pack of cigarettes and left us to live with an abusive orange stepfather,” he cracked.

“You led the way for all of us with your intelligence, humor, and empathy, Especially since November, when we kicked open the portal to hell," Kimmel added.

The ABC host made several other shots at Trump, mocking his “classy” ties line, and teasing Letterman for supporting former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani, who later became a Trump supporter.

“Well Dave, we all make mistakes sometimes,” Kimmel snarked.

Several other comedian speakers attacked the Trump Administration, quipping that the show was about to be cut off mid-way because the Kennedy Center had its funding slashed.

Sen. Al Franken and former First Lady Michelle Obama also appeared to honor Letterman. Franken praised Letterman’s support of climate change, while Obama gushed that she and the president “loved” him and were “grateful” to him, in a pre-taped video message.

“That’s what I love most about Dave: that he’s always such a knowledgeable and passionate interviewer who cares deeply about a wide range of issues,” she stated.

While accepting his award, Letterman praised Kimmel for his recent liberal activism, gushing he was “the man that got more done in Congress this year than anybody else.” He ended the night by quoting Mark Twain and taking a stand against the current administration, saying, “Patriotism is supporting your country all the time and your government when it deserves it.”


&&&&&

+++++

Almost Half of Voters Believe Media Make Up Stories About Trump, Poll Reveals

2017-10-18

More bad news for the liberal media.

According to a poll conducted by Politico and Morning Consult, nearly half of American voters distrust the media’s reporting on President Trump and his administration. Not only that, but they believe journalists deliberately fabricate stories about Trump. More surprising, it’s not just Republicans or Trump supporters who believe this.

The staggering results published Wednesday morning in Politico, reveal that while 76 percent of Republicans believe the media makes up stories about Trump, a whopping 44 percent of independent voters, and 1 in 5 Democrats also believe the media lies in their reporting on Trump.

Politico reported: “Nearly half of voters, 46 percent, believe the news media fabricate news stories about President Donald Trump and his administration” and “just 37 percent of voters think the media do not fabricate stories, the poll shows, while the remaining 17 percent are undecided.”

These numbers contradict the media’s narrative that Trump’s battle with the media only influence his base. It seems the media’s constant negative reporting on the president has taken it’s toll on independents and some Democrats as well.

This poll comes on the heels of Trump telling conservative radio host Chris Plante his very same suspicions about the credibility of the media:

“Actually, dishonesty in the media is one of the things that surprised me the most. I thought after I won, the media would become much more stable and much more honest. They’ve gone crazy. CNN is a joke. NBC is a total joke. You watch what they report, it bears no relationship to what I’m doing. But the media is absolutely dishonest — and frankly, I’ve never seen anything quite like it,” he told Plante in an interview Tuesday morning.

Trump also tweeted on Tuesday, “So much Fake News being put in dying magazines and newspapers. Only place worse may be @NBCNews, @CBSNews, @ABC and @CNN. Fiction writers!”

It seems that almost half of voters agree with the president.

This isn’t the only poll this year that reveals Americans increasing distrust of the media. Back in June, two polls revealed similar results. A Rasmussen poll found “76 percent of Republicans and 51 percent of voters not affiliated with either major political party believed most reporters are biased against the president” while 24 percent of Democrats agreed the media held an anti-Trump bias.

Another poll from Yougov.com revealed that while 85% of Republicans believed the media’s reporting was influenced by who funds or owns them, 1 in 2 Democrats also believed the media was partial to its financial backers. More importantly, the YouGov pollsters found that “the general public sides more with Republicans than it does with Democrats on the topic of media bias.”

In September, Gallup reported that only one-third of Americans believed the media gets its facts straight. The poll also reveals the sharp divide between Republicans and Democrats on the issue of media bias, that has increased dramatically in the past 19 years. When Gallup asked voters this same question in 1998, both parties were pretty evenly split in agreement that the media got their facts straight, but now it’s mostly Republicans who believe the media is biased, proving that the media has an even stronger left-leaning bent now.

&&&&&

+++++

Salon’s Top 'Conservative’ List Is Nearly All 'Never Trump' Liberals Who Hate the Right

2017-10-16

Over the weekend, liberal online magazine Salon put out a highly mockable list of their top “25 Conservatives Actually Worth Following on Twitter.” The story made a splash on social media, because it seemed Salon’s only criteria for being a “worthy conservative” is that you had to be an outspoken “Never-Trumper” and a fierce critic of the right. Brownie points if you support Obamacare and spew profanities at the president.

What didn’t count? Actually being a smart, thoughtful commentator on conservative ideas and a warrior against the liberal media.

Salon’s list is so out-of-touch from what a conservative is, that they even include virulently anti-conservative commentators like CNN’s Ana Navarro and the Washington Post’s Jennifer Rubin.
 
Taylor Link, assistant editor for Salon, introduced his article touting it would help liberals “get out of their bubble” if they followed these 25 “conservatives.” To make things more palatable, Link notes, these conservatives “not only dislike President Trump” but also were “ideologically introspective” (which seems to be a euphemism for, “they attack their own side.”)
 
Link began his list by recommending several anonymous Twitter accounts that used pseudonyms, as examples of conservative warriors. Keyboard conservatives who are so courageous they can’t even use their real names, apparently. Of one user called “Brandt/ @UrbanAchievr,” Link glowingly notes, he frequently goes after his “fellow” conservatives:
 
Beyond his condemnations of The Federalist, Brandt takes shots at his fellow conservatives, especially those who do not apply their beliefs uniformly.
...and “isn’t afraid” to call the President, a “fascist.” How brave!

Of another user called “Atticus Goldfinch/ @AtticusGF,” Link notes, he “goes after the real virus pervading right-wing politics....conservative media,” before embedding a series of tweets loaded with profanity-filled rants against Ben Shapiro’s The Daily Wire.

Next, it was time to move on to the “conservatives” in the mainstream media, ie: Never-Trumpers whose main role is to bash the right.

First up was CNN commentator Ana Navarro, who Salon’s Link notes, “isn't afraid to attack those who don't practice what they preach.” Nearly every week, Navarro appears on television as a foil to CNN’s actual conservative guest, to engage in an unhinged shouting match. Navarro is known more for her nasty anti-conservative rants and immature name-calling than she is for promoting any sort of conservatism.

Salon also included frequent MSNBC contributor Richard Painter, who has attacked Christian conservatives as racists, and The Washington Post’s Jennifer Rubin. Of Rubin, Link writes, she’s a “noted conservative blogger” who gives a “nuanced look” at the issues of the day. Which is laughable, because everything she writes sounds like it could've been written by any liberal in the media today.

Some other highlights from the list includes McCain and Kasich strategist John Weaver, who Salon touts as “the only Republican who fought for and defended the Affordable Care Act” and whose obvious “disgust for the president” made him a “must follow for liberals.”

And that was just a handful of the fake conservatives who made the list.

Of course this didn’t go over so well with actual conservatives. Columnist Kurt Schlichter rightly noted that the left-wing media doesn’t seem to understand what a conservative is, and to make this list, they either view you as non-threatening, or at worst, as a covert liberal. Writing at Townhall, he noted:

Getting named to Salon’s list of The 25 Conservatives Actually Worth Following On Twitter is either a grievous insult or a certification that you suck. Salon is saying that you’re not a carrier of a hardcore conservative contagion, and that the liberal establishment doesn’t need to worry. At best, Salon thinks you’re no threat. At worst, it considers you a fellow traveler. And some of these selectees really are straight-up Fredocons.

…

You know what you won’t find in the major papers or on the mainstream networks, besides timely exposés of Democrat megadonors who are also megaperverts? Conservative columnists who don’t foam at the mouth over Donald Trump and who actually support conservative policies. Instead, you’ll find a bunch of journalistic Jeb!s, because the liberals hiring them know that squishes gonna squish.

Look, far be it from me to tell my enemy when it’s making a mistake, but because the media only hires nominal conservatives who already agree with liberals, liberals have no idea what real conservatives think or why.


&&&&&

+++++

NYT: Women Having to Pay for Own Contraception Means US Is Turning Into Saudi Arabia

2017-10-12

Because of recent measures the White House has taken to expand protection of religious and moral rights, the print media has been on an outright crusade against Trump, with two newspapers accusing him of imposing a “religious theocracy” on American women.

The complaints came after the White House moved last week to expand exemptions afforded under the ObamaCare birth control mandate, to now broadly include more types of companies, as well as provide for an employer’s “moral” objection to contraception, rather than just “religious” based objections. As to be expected, the media threw a fit, with columnists actually claiming that America was turning into Saudi Arabia.

After the Washington Post’s “conservative” columnist Jennifer Rubin opined Wednesday that the Republicans were “seeking to impose Christianity on the country,” and make religion “a tool of the state,” The New York Times’ Linda Greenhouse one-upped her by suggesting that the Trump White House was trying turn our country into a Middle Eastern theocracy.

Greenhouse started her Wednesday online op-ed by bemoaning how the U.S. was turning into a country with less rights for women than Saudi Arabia...because they may have to pay for their own birth control:

Saudi women are gaining the right to drive. American women are losing the right to employer-provided birth control.

The first development signifies a theocratic kingdom’s bow to the inexorable onslaught of modernity. The second is a cynical bow to the forces of reaction against modernity.

It would be too far a stretch to see in Saudi Arabia even the glimmer of the emergence of civil society.
That was just the opening lines. Greenhouse’s Handsmaid’s Tale-esque screed goes on to declare the recent move of the Trump White House was “enabling a fanatical fringe” to “outsource a crucially important building block of national health care policy.”

“It’s hard to overstate the radical nature of what has just happened,” she breathlessly gushed. Yes, she’s just talking about employer-provided birth control. But let’s not overreact or anything.

Greenhouse characterized the broadened exemptions as a dead-end for women. She worried, this “flat-out exemption” as she called it, holds “no requirement that women be offered any alternative route to coverage.” Again, ignoring the obvious, that the “alternative route” would be to just pay out-of-pocket for the inexpensive contraception yourself.

Greenhouse ended her article by blasting the right for not really caring about religious rights or moral objections at all; this was simply a ploy to control women. She claims, it’s all about “normalizing” the “disempowerment of women,” (because there’s nothing more “empowering” than requiring your employer to pay for your own contraception!):

I used to think — in fact, I wrote last year — that the resistance to the contraception mandate was fueled by cultural conservatives’ determination not to let federal policy normalize birth control. But now I think it’s deeper than that. Conservatives, even the publicly pious ones, don’t seem to have a problem with limiting the size of their families. (Vice President Mike Pence has two children, and Attorney General Jeff Sessions has three. Need I say more?) The problem they have is with what birth control signifies: empowering women — in school, on the job, in the home — to determine their life course. That’s what they don’t want to normalize. It comes as no surprise which side Donald Trump is on; his administration’s action last week makes perfect sense. Or none at all.

Conservatives on Twitter rightly noted that this article's crude accusations grossly miss the mark. Access to birth control is not an issue in this country, nor is it something Republicans are fighting to block. It’s the government forcing employers to provide it to their employees through their health insurance plans, that has always been the issue.

These overwrought op-eds come on the heels of CNN doing some agonizing of their own, when they shared one woman’s ridiculous claim that she would have to leave the country to afford birth control, because of Trump.


&&&&&

+++++

Media Darling Jimmy Kimmel Says ‘F**k You’ to Critics, Fundraises for Left-Wing Everytown

2017-10-06

ABC’s newest entertainer turned activist isn’t backing down, after intense criticism for his recent turns at blaming the right for people dying in a shooting massacre and overturning ObamaCare.

Jimmy Kimmel is now actively seeking out media coverage of his left-wing activism, outside of what he does on his late night comedy show. In a response to an artist-critic in Hollywood, (of all places,) Kimmel took a photo of himself giving the finger to the artist, with a message calling for support for the left-wing gun grabbing group Everytown for Gun Safety.

Kimmel sent the provocative photo to entertainment media outlet The Hollywood Reporter Thursday afternoon, as a retort to ads mocking Kimmel as a “cry baby.” Along with the photo, Kimmel told THR: "I encourage all fellow cry babies to support Everytown for Gun Safety — everytown.org."

Kimmel’s response came after an artist named Sabo placed fake ads and posters of Kimmel Thursday morning on street benches across West Hollywood, in close proximity to Kimmel’s home and the ABC studios where Kimmel records his shows. The posters featured an image of Kimmel crying, made to look like Johnny Depp in the 1990 movie Cry-Baby, with the text, “The Jimmy Kimmel Estrogen Hour.”

Sabo told THR that the posters were to counter Kimmel’s gun control tirade, which he called partisan and factually inaccurate:

"Two facts are clear," Sabo said in response to Kimmel. "The first is that gun control laws accomplish nothing. Criminals don't abide by them. The second is that the left's aim in abolishing the Second Amendment is to have even more control over the people of this country."

"We allow Jimmy Kimmel into our homes because at one point we considered him to be entertaining," said Sabo. "Now he's nothing more than a talking head for the Democrat party."
He also mocked Kimmel on Twitter:

According to THR, “Sabo has been chastising liberal Hollywood for years with his street art. His UnsavoryAgents.com website includes degrading images of Cher, Leonardo DiCaprio, Jon Stewart, Gwyneth Paltrow and more.”

Kimmel clearly is bothered by the criticism, after sending out that crass photo and using Wednesday’s show to mock his critics as “nuts” who were “responsible” for 58 people losing their lives to a lunatic.

Thursday evening, Kimmel also tweeted at his “crazy” critics with more virtue-signaling and calls for donations to Everytown:

Everytown, spearheaded by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, not only helps spread inaccurate information about gun violence, but the group actively works as a consultant for Hollywood, in figuring out ways to put more gun control messages in our entertainment.

It even has a celebrity “council” made up of several leading actors and filmmakers like Julianne Moore, J.J. Abrams, Judd Apatow and Jennifer Lawrence. Not only that, but the news media is also in collusion with the gun control group. From ESPN, to NBC, the media has dutifully promoted the group and it’s misleading “facts” for the past three years, since its founding.


&&&&&

+++++

AP Hires Left Wing Huffington Post Editor As Lead ‘Fact-Checker’ For New Project

2017-09-26

The Associated Press announced Monday that they were developing a new global fact-checking team, headed by no other than the editor of The Huffington Post’s breaking news section. The reason this is so problematic, is obvious to anyone who has taken a second glance at the website’s front page in the past five years.

Huffington Post isn’t just a liberal outlet; it’s one of the most popular and most extreme left-wing outlets in the online media. Their articles are basically propaganda, not even slightly subtly disguised as “news articles.”

HuffPo’s news editor Karen Mahabir, who used to work for The Associated Press, will rejoin the newswire to head their new fact-checking division, and evidence of her own left-wing views aren’t hard to find.

Though she doesn’t post to her own Twitter account frequently, she has retweeted articles from colleagues and other media outlets, that crassly bashed the president, praised Hillary Clinton and “abortion rights,” fear-mongered over gun rights, and mocked Christians. So it’s safe to assume where her own loyalties lie and how that will affect her judgement as AP’s fact-checker.


 
 

 


 
 
According to the newswire, the AP is using a $245,000 grant from the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation, a journalism “truth-telling” organization whose own president and CEO resides on journalism advisory boards funded by George Soros. So basically AP is taking money from liberal fact-checkers to hire more liberal fact-checkers, yet we are supposed to be they are a neutral journalism outlet?
H/T: Free Beacon


&&&&&

+++++

Clinton: Media Landscape Unfair to Dems; Right Has 'Dedicated Propaganda' Channels

2017-09-12

Liberals in the media and Hollywood were outraged after former White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer made a guest appearance on stage to poke fun at himself at the Emmy Awards in Los Angeles, September 17. Offended journalists from several major media outlets took to Twitter to complain that Spicer’s appearance wasn’t funny in the slightest, but it “normalized” him as a “liar.”

CNN’s Chris Cillizza complained Spicer “consistently lied from the podium” so where’s the joke:

After losing the presidential election ten months ago, Hillary Clinton is still on the blame game tour, this time to promote her election memoir What Happened, which was released today, September 12. She continued the whining and pointing of fingers during her appearance on the liberal podcast, “Pod Save America,” which is hosted by former speechwriters for President Obama.

Specifically, Clinton called out the media for putting Democrats at a “disadvantage” saying the media played a “false equivalency” with her and Trump in their reporting. Clinton also blamed right wing media outlets for not giving Democrats a fair advantage (because supposedly there is no left wing media outlets, right?)

Right off the bat, the liberal interviewers were out for the cheap shots against the right. Jon Favreau, Obama’s former speechwriter, began by asking Clinton what advice she had for future female presidential candidates, but colored his question with charges of sexism:

“What advice would you give them about how to grapple with the kind of sexism that you grappled with during the campaign?” he asked.

“I’m so glad you started with that Jon,” Clinton happily obliged. “We have to deal with” these issues, she explained, “so they won’t have the same impact on the next election, and the one after that.” She added that she wrote a whole chapter on the topic of sexism in politics, and of course complained about Trump, the sexist. “We can’t allow ourselves to go backwards,” she lamented.

The second question focused on Democratic party. Clinton blamed Bernie Sanders for not immediately endorsing her as the candidate, before shifting the blame to right wing media “propaganda channels” as the real problem Democrats face:

I think we face a number of obstacles. The other side has dedicated propaganda channels.That’s what I call Fox News. It has outlets like Breitbart, and you know crazy InfoWars and things like that. In this particular election, it was aided and abetted by Russians and the role that Facebook and other platforms played. We are late to that.We did not understand how a reality TV campaign would so dominate the media environment.

I think the Democrats can do a lot, but they're still going to face a very difficult media environment. And we've got to figure out how we're going to break through.I mean obviously more podcasts, more other ways of communicating so voices can be heard and real positions can be understood is part of it.
"But we're still at a disadvantage," she whined.

After some more questions about the Democrat party, Clinton brought up the right’s alleged “media advantage” yet again:

The new threat that’s coming from Sinclair broadcasting. 72%+ of the homes in America being given a steady diet of right-wing Republican politics. Fox doesn’t even pretend anymore. They don’t even cover stuff that’s not going to promote the Trump agenda, so you’ve got billions and billions of dollars coming at you from the other direction, and literally you’re trying to keep your head above water, and it’s not easy.
Clinton added that had she been in office, she would’ve gone after the Republicans' “media monopolization:”

“I would really be taking all of that on, and I fear it’s only going to get worse,” she complained. “We’re really at a disadvantage,” she repeated again.

Later on, she said that the left needed to invest in it’s own media, because of the threat of right wing “propaganda” and a mainstream media “that engages in false equivalency:”

Well, I don't understand why people who share our views aren't more willing to invest in media that can be competitive. Because what you've got is a right-wing advocacy propaganda and you've got a kind of mainstream media that engages in false equivalency. And it's tough if you are a Democrat trying to navigate through that, to get the coverage that is really going to reflect the reality that you're facing out there on the campaign.
Lest Clinton need reminding, the media coverage of her opponent was not even close to balanced. In the 12 weeks after Trump was announced as the Republican nominee, he received 91% hostile media coverage, on the three major networks. Yet just 38% of Clinton’s airtime during that period focused on her scandals. While Clinton complains the media engaged in false equivalencies, Donald Trump’s comments about women in the leaked Access Hollywood tape received far more coverage than any of her scandals, such as the Clinton Foundation’s spending, which earned less than 5 minutes of coverage from January to May in 2016.

You can listen to entire 47 minute long interview through this mp3 stream, or find it on Itunes.


&&&&&


