+++++

OF COURSE IT MATTERS THAT TEAM CLINTON FUNDED THE DOSSIER

2017-10-28

It is now undisputed that Hillary Clinton’s campaign and the DNC paid for the infamous Trump dossier (though as Andy McCarthy notes, the media is characterizing the transaction as paying “for the research that led to the dossier”). What is the response of Democrats and their media friends to this upsetting news?

The main response I’ve heard is that it doesn’t matter who paid for the dossier. What matters is whether the allegations contained therein are true. To cite one example out of many, James Clapper says:

With respect to the dossier itself, the key thing is it doesn’t matter who paid for it. It’s what the dossier said and the extent to which it’s corroborated or not.

Clearly, it matters whether what the dossier says is true. In this regard, as Chuck Ross observes, 15 months after the dossier first fell into the hands of FBI investigators, we have no indication that its claims are true, or even corroborated.

But who knows? Maybe one day, reliable information will emerge that backs the claims spoonfed to the Clinton campaign by Russian operatives.

In any event, there are two reasons why it matters that Team Clinton paid for the dossier — reasons that apply whether the dossier contains important true information.

First, Team Clinton’s admission shows that it colluded with Russia (or collaborated, if you prefer). The issue of collusion is independent of the veracity of information obtained through the collusion.

For example, no one disputes the authenticity of the DNC emails thought to be hacked by Russians. There is no evidence that Team Trump colluded in the hacking. But if Team Trump had, the fact that the emails truthfully reflect what Democratic insiders were saying wouldn’t mean there was no collusion.

Recall the furor (unjustified, I thought) when we learned that Donald Trump Jr. was interested in obtaining information adverse to Hillary Clinton from Russian sources. That furor derived from Trump Jr.’s willingness to meet with, and possibly get help from, Russian insiders.

The outrage wasn’t predicated on the truth or falsity of the information Team Trump might have obtained from Russians. Imagine the reaction if the Trumps had defended meeting with the Russian lawyer on the grounds that they we would only have used true information from Kremlin-related sources against Hillary Clinton.

Second, the dossier matters whether or not its contents are true because it undercuts the claim that Russia wanted Trump to win the election. Some of the most damaging (if true) information in the dossier comes from sources with Kremlin connections. If Russia wanted Trump to win, it’s highly unlikely that these operatives would have divulged such information to Christopher Steele. Scott made this point in his classic “exploding cigar” post.

My sense is that Russia was playing both sides in the 2016 presidential election. Its goal was not to influence the outcome — an achievement the Russians understood to be beyond their capability.

Rather the goal was to undermine the credibility of our democratic system and, in the words of James Comey, to “freak people out.” I advanced this theory in a post back in March.

The Russians have succeeded beyond their wildest dreams, thanks to the unwillingness of Hillary Clinton and her backers in the mainstream media to live with the result of last November’s presidential election.


&&&&&

+++++

STUDY CLAIMS HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS ARE STRESSED BY TRUMP

2017-10-27

Student anxiety and hostility at public high schools have worsened since Donald Trump became president, according to a study. More than half of the 1,535 teachers who responded to a survey claimed to see more students than ever with “high levels of stress and anxiety” between January and May of this year.

The study was conducted by UCLA’s director of the Institute for Democracy, Education, and Access. The title of the institute suggests to me that the study was looking for the result it found.

Indeed, there are some obvious problems with the study. First, more than 10,000 teachers were invited to respond. Only about 15 percent did. One suspects that the teachers who responded were among the most likely to tell the researchers that student stress is rising under Trump. One suspects that many of these teachers, if asked, would report that mildew in their classroom has increased since Trump became president.

Second, there’s little doubt that leftists, including those who teach high school, are more stressed under Trump than they were under Obama, as they should be. Thus, it’s quite possible that the teachers who told the researchers their students have become more stressed are projecting they stress they feel onto students — a far less politically engaged cohort.

Third, I can’t tell from the report on the study how widespread this supposed new increase in stress is. If only illegal immigrants (about whom more later) are feeling heightened stress, that would be consistent with the study’s conclusion that more students than ever before feel high levels of stress and anxiety.

Fourth, if high schools are feeling more stress since Trump became president, how much of this is due to efforts by the left, including leftist teachers, to make them fearful? If students keep hearing people, including their teachers, say that a dangerous racist now occupies the White House, they may well feel extra stress. But unless the president actually is a dangerous racist, blame for any increased stress resides with those, including teachers, who peddle this claim.

Teachers reported to UCLA that student learning is adversely affected by the stress Trump supposedly has brought on. If this is true, and I very much doubt it is except in rare cases, how pathetic! If American high school students are too soft to learn in class because the president makes them nervous, our country doesn’t have much of a future. Meanwhile, perhaps the teachers who are freaking out should consider lowering the temperature so their snowflake students can learn.

The study purports to tell us not just about student stress, but also, inevitably, about the environment for minority students under Trump. It finds that a growing number of schools, especially predominantly white ones, have become (in the words of the Washington Post story about the study) “hostile environments for racial and religious minorities and other vulnerable groups.”

What exactly is meant by “hostile environment” in this context, I cannot tell. But the problems with the study that I have discussed above — e.g., self-selection and bias — apply to this finding.

The study found that the policy issue of most concern to students is immigration, including the possible deportation of illegal immigrants who came to the U.S. as children. One teacher/coach reported that some of his student athletes live in “survival mode,” never knowing if they will be deported.

The facts on the ground do not support such hysteria. However, it’s easy to believe the so-called Dreamers are more stressed under the Trump administration than they were in the last few years of the Obama administration following the DACA executive order. But during most of the Obama years and the years before that, Dreamers were subject to deportation. Were they not highly stressed then?

Whatever stress students may be feeling is due to the demise of the DACA executive order flows from their illegal status and the unwillingness of Congress, so far, to change that status. Under our Constitution, the president lacks the power to make this change. We can’t ignore the Constitution just to spare Dreamers and their friends from stress.

Moreover, the “stress” argument shows why it is important to couple any relief for Dreamers with stepped up enforcement of our immigration laws. We may not want Dreamers to feel stress, but neither, as a general matter, should we want illegal immigrants and those thinking about coming here illegally to feel sanguine.

Relief for Dreamers might well encourage a wave of illegal immigration by parents hoping to see their children one day receive the same kind of relief. That relief should not be granted in the first instance without new measures to combat illegal immigration.


&&&&&

+++++

CLINTONIAN COLLUSION WITH RUSSIA [UPDATED]

2017-10-26

We now know that the Clinton campaign paid Christopher Steele the funds he used to develop the infamous dossier on Donald Trump. We also know that, in compiling the dossier, Steele relied on Russian sources, including sources with Kremlin ties. For example, as Scott points out, Steele’s “Source B” is “a former high level Russian intelligence officer still active in the Kremlin’s inner circles.”

When Team Clinton enlisted Christopher Steele it knew he would rely on Russian sources. Indeed, it must have counted on him to do so.

Steele has an extensive background working for British intelligence on Russian matters, but he had retired from the government and wasn’t operating out of Russia. There was no way he could obtain valuable Russia-related “opposition research” on Trump without relying on Russian sources.

Moreover, it was always likely that Steele’s Russian sources of negative information on Trump would have ties with the Kremlin. It’s implausible to suppose that in a state like Russia, “freelance” Russian operatives would be able, independent of the government, to provide Steele with valauble information about Trump.

Thus, I agree with Scott’s conclusion that “the Trump Dossier represents Clintonian collusion with the Russian friends of former MI6 operative Christopher Steele, themselves friends of Vladimir Putin.” The inference that Team Clinton knew it would be getting the goods on Trump from Kremlin-connected Russians seems unavoidable.

UPDATE: It occurs to me that the FBI, when it saw the Trump dossier and the sources of the information contained therein, should have suspected, if not concluded: (1) that Team Clinton, funders of the research, was colluding with Kremlin-connected Russians and (2) that the Russian government may not have wanted Trump to win the election.


&&&&&

+++++

TRUMP’S RECKLESS COMMENTS ON BOWE BERGDAHL

2017-10-25

Sen. Jeff Flake announced yesterday that he will not seek reelection next year. Explaining his decision on the Senate floor, Flake had harsh words for President Trump. Among them were these:

Reckless, outrageous and undignified behavior has become excused as telling it like it is when it is actually just reckless, outrageous and undignified. And when such behavior emanates from the top of our government, it is something else. It is dangerous to a democracy.

President Trump’s behavior has been reckless, outrageous, and undignified at times. I’m not convinced that this behavior endangers democracy, but on the whole it isn’t good for the country.

Andy McCarthy argues that reckless comments by Trump about Bowe Bergdahl have jeopardized the military’s prosecution of the deserter. To understand how, we need to distinguish, as Andy does, between comments Trump made as a candidate and comments he made as president.

As a candidate, Trump ripped Bergdahl as a “dirty, rotten traitor.” Reportedly, he even mimicked the sound of a rifle shot as he pantomimed a firing squad executing Bergdahl.

Because Trump was not president at the time, this behavior did not affect the Bergdahl prosecution. Earlier this year, the military judge in that case rejected the defense’s attempt to rely on what Trump said before he became president.

Trump has not repeated his words about Bergdahl since becoming commander-in-chief. However, it can be argued that he has incorporated them by reference. McCarthy explains:

[L]ast week, at a White House press conference, he was asked whether his previous attacks on Bergdahl had unfairly prejudiced the court-martial against the defendant. There is only one proper answer to that question or, indeed, to any question to the president about the pending case: No comment.

Alas, that answer does not seem to be in the Trump repertoire. While the president declined to opine on what effect his comments may have had, he couldn’t just leave it there. Instead, he compulsively added, “But I think people have heard my comments in the past.”

Andy says this response “can be interpreted only one way: Trump wanted to make clear that he stands by his prior condemnatory remarks — as if he were making them again.” This may not be the only possible interpretation, but I think it’s the most plausible one.

Accordingly, Trump has placed the prosecution of Bergdahl in jeopardy. This isn’t just McCarthy’s view. Cully Stinson, now of the Heritage Foundation and formerly a military lawyer and judge, shares it. He cites the military law principle known as “unlawful command influence.” It forbids any official with the mantle of command authority from taking any action, including making any statement, that could influence a military tribunal that is considering a soldier’s case.

At a minimum, Trump has flirted with a violation of this principle. And he has done even though he knew, or should have known, that his earlier comments about Bergdahl were already being used by the defense team. McCarthy reminds us:

Shortly after Trump was sworn in, Bergdahl’s lawyer, Yale’s Eugene Fidell, began arguing that the case against his client should be thrown out on the theory that Trump’s remarks constituted “unlawful command influence.”. . .

In February, after a hotly contested litigation, the judge, Army Colonel Jeffrey R. Nance, denied Bergdahl’s motion on this rationale.

Consequently, all the president had to do to avoid further problems for the prosecution was to avoid further commentary about Bergdahl. Too much to ask, apparently.

So now, the Bergdahl defense team has renewed its motion, even though Bergdahl already pleaded guilty. The military judge is taking the motion seriously.

The judge explained that when he denied the motion to dismiss back in February, he reasoned that the “disturbing” campaign rhetoric could be disregarded because Trump was not in a position of command influence. That rationale, he observed, “tend[s] to be eroded when the now-president of the United States adopts those past statements.”

The judge has adjourned the sentencing proceedings until today, Wednesday, to consider whether Trump’s remarks warrant granting Bergdahl’s motion for a sentence of minimal, if any, imprisonment. As McCarthy rightly says, if the “dirty, rotten traitor” gets a pass, President Trump will have only himself to blame.


&&&&&

+++++

IMMY CARTER APPLIES FOR ENCORE NORTH KOREA GIG

2017-10-22

Jimmy Carter tells Maureen Dowd “I would go” to North Korea to negotiate with Kim Jong Un. Apparently, he has told the Trump administration, via its national security adviser H.R. McMaster, the same thing.

So far, says Carter, the response has been negative.

Carter doubts that China can help rein in North Korea. The Chinese have no relationship with Kim Jong Un, he explains.

Carter doesn’t either. However, he has a relationship with the dictator’s grandfather. In 1994, he negotiated a disastrous deal with the regime and managed to foist it on President Clinton. The current crisis is the fruit of that deal.

I’m pretty sure Carter would be welcome in Pyongyang.

I say, give Jimmy a chance. While he’s at it, President Trump can ask George W. Bush to draft immigration reform legislation on the administration’s behalf. Then, he can enlist Barack Obama to negotiate a free trade deal with Iran.

In his interview with Dowd, Carter take a conciliatory attitude towards Trump. He says America’s poor image in the world predates the current president. Indeed, according to Dowd, Carter was harder on Barack Obama than on Trump.

Carter likes Trump’s outreach to Saudi Arabia. And he denies that Russian interference in the 2016 election affected the outcome. “I don’t think there’s any evidence that what the Russians did changed enough votes, or any votes,” the former president sensibly opines, with his wife Rosalynn dissenting.

As for the media’s treatment of Trump, Carter says this:

I think the media have been harder on Trump than any other president certainly that I’ve known about. I think they feel free to claim that Trump is mentally deranged and everything else without hesitation.

These truthful words must be music to Trump’s ears, but not to the point that he’s going to accept the services of Jimmy Carter on North Korea or any other matter.


&&&&&

+++++

THE CAMPUS SHOUT-DOWN MOVEMENT TAKES ITS NEXT LOGICAL STEP

2017-10-19

Recently, a friend who is enrolled in a graduate program at a prestigious university asked me whether I would be interesting in speaking to a group of students as part of series on public policy the program was holding. She said that all of the speakers so far have been liberal and that I would add a different perspective to the proceedings.

I responded, chidingly, that I might be risking life and limb if I participated. She assured me that I would be in no jeopardy because I am not a white supremacist.

I don’t really believe there would much real risk associated with speaking to a handful of graduate students at this university. However, the shout-down movement is not about preventing “white supremacists” from speaking. It is about enforcing left-wing orthodoxy (which, to be sure, now includes the notion that those who reject that orthodoxy are white supremacists).

Accordingly, the next logical steps in the shout-down movement are (1) to prevent speech by liberals who don’t embrace key tenets of radical leftism and (2) to prevent speech by mainstream conservatives and Republicans.

We discussed an example of the first phenomenon here. The second was on display the other day at UC Santa Cruz. Campus Reform reports:

A College Republicans meeting at the University of California, Santa Cruz was taken over by protesters screaming that the group’s existence is a threat to the safety of students.

Shortly after the CR meeting convened, one student entered the ground floor room of McHenry Library to ask attendees which group was assembling. After being informed that the meeting was a gathering of College Republicans, the student returned about 15-20 minutes later with company.

To muster his group of brownshirts, the student posted this on the official UCSC Student Facebook group:

White Supremacist, fascist sympathizing College Republicans are having a meeting at McHenry library, room 0332. Everybody be aware of this violent racist activity happening everyday on this campus! We need a movement of people on this campus that rejects the ‘right of assembly,’ or ‘right of free speech’ for white supremacists and fascists.

Heeding this call, lefty students disrupted the meeting by banging open the door to the meeting space and shouting accusations that the members were “fascists,” “racists,” and “white supremacists.” The College Republicans say they offered to discuss the concerns of the protesters. The brownshirts replied: “dialogue is violence.”

In these three words, they captured the essence of the shout-down movement, as well as the authoritarian nature of the emerging radical left. Claims that “dialogue is violence” are antithetical to democracy and to academic life in a free society. Those who act on such claims to curb free expression of any kind don’t belong in college. They should promptly be placed on the track to expulsion, e.g. through a “two-strikes and you’re out policy”.

The UC Santa Cruz leftist protesters demanded that the College Republicans leave the library. They even berated library staff members when they refused to shut down the pre-approved meeting.

One staff member eventually asked the Republicans to leave in order to end the disturbance. To their credit, the attendees refused.

Finally, after nearly two hours, school officials called the police. Reportedly, three protesters were arrested. All of the protesters should be disciplined by the college.

Stanley Kurtz, who is leading the charge against the shout-down movement, writes:

This incident is another warning that shout-downs are threatening to morph into generalized warfare. I mean that only partly metaphorically. How long before student groups, nose-to-nose in confrontation, resort to violence? We saw some violence at Middlebury. But if nothing is done to stop these shout-downs, Allison Stanger’s concussion and neck-brace will have been only the beginning.

I reminded the student-friend who invited me to speak to her classmates about Allison Stanger after the student promised, jokingly, to protect me from protesters.

Stanley concludes:

We can see that the campus free-speech crisis is escalating; that the targets of shout-downs are expanding; that the potential for violence is growing; and that the deadly anti-free speech culture purveyed by faculty and administrators alike is metastasizing.

He is right.

&&&&&

+++++

OUR UNDER-INCARCERATION PROBLEM, MARYLAND/DELAWARE EDITION

2017-10-18
America has an under-incarceration problem. Too many people whose history of criminality shows they should be in jail are on our streets committing crimes, including heinous ones. I’ve written about this here, here, here, and elsewhere.

Today’s news brings more evidence of the problem. Radee L. Prince killed three co-workers and wounded two others at his workplace in northern Maryland and then drove to Delaware where he shot a sixth victim. Police apprehended him early this evening after a manhunt.

The shootings occurred only hours ago, and Prince’s full criminal record has not yet been reported. However, he has a lengthy criminal history in both Maryland and Delaware, according to court records and law enforcement officials.

Wilmington Police Chief Robert Tracy says that in Delaware alone, Prince has a total of 42 arrests, including 15 convictions for felonies and several for misdemeanors. That’s quite a record for a 37 year-old.

Prince has also had trouble with the law in Maryland. For example, in 2015 he was pulled over for driving with his front headlight out, and became “extremely loud and aggressive,” according to court records. Police found a pistol in the card, and Prince was charged with multiple handgun violations. However, prosecutors dropped these charges three months later.

Earlier this year, Prince was fired from a job in Maryland for punching a co-worker and threatening other employees. As far as I can tell, he was not prosecuted for this, and a judge declined to issue a “peace order” when another co-worker applied for one.

We don’t know yet whether Prince has committed drug offenses. Reportedly, however, he has been ordered in recent years to undergo counseling for drug abuse.

I probably will have more to say about Prince as additional information about his history becomes available. But even with what we now know, it seems almost certain that, in a properly functioning criminal justice system, this 15-time loser with a recent history of violence against co-workers would have been behind bars when the day began, and lives would have been spared.


&&&&&

+++++

INITIAL THOUGHTS ON THE WEINSTEIN EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT

2017-10-13

Earlier today, Scott wrote about Harvey Weinstein’s employment contract. Reportedly, it provides that if Weinstein “treated someone improperly in violation of the company’s Code of Conduct,” he must reimburse the company for settlements or judgments. Additionally, “[Weinstein] will pay the company liquidated damages of $250,000 for the first such instance, $500,000 for the second such instance, $750,000 for the third such instance, and $1,000,000 for each additional instance.”

The contract stipulates that if Weinstein pays as required, it constitutes a “cure” for the misconduct and no further action can be taken. This language is intended to ensure that Weinstein can keep his job no matter how many times he is sued for actions that violate the Code of Conduct, as long as he writes the checks.

I used to practice employment law. No one I ever represented, or sued, combined the power and the sleaziness to get contractual provisions like the ones Scott described. Moreover, it’s been some time since I practiced law in this area. Thus, my initial thoughts about the contract should not be construed as expert analysis.

Nonetheless, Weinstein’s contract strikes me as legally problematic, to say the least. Weinstein is alleged to have committed serial acts of sexual harassment — some so egregious they may have amounted to assault or even rape. The contract does not protect Weinstein if he’s indicted or convicted of a crime, so for purposes of discussion, let’s focus on sexual harassment that falls short of criminal conduct.

The law bans it. Specifically, it is against the law to condition an employment decision on submission to sexual advances. It is also against the law to engage in sexual harassment that makes the work environment “hostile.” Weinstein violated the first of these prohibitions, at a minimum, if certain allegations against him are true.

If an employer learns that an employee is engaging in either form sexual harassment, it must take reasonable measures to stop the offending conduct. This is true even if the conduct has not yet risen to a level that makes the work environment “hostile,” in the legal sense of that word.

Reasonable measures to end harassment may begin with counseling and other soft remedial steps. In severe cases, the employer may be required to take more drastic action at the outset. If the harassment is serial, or if it involves even just one instance of extreme behavior, the only reasonable measure might be to terminate the offending employee or official.

Weinstein’s contract seems intended to take that option away from the employer. In effect, it fines him for sexual harassment that results in a settlement or judgment, but prohibits discharging him. A series of fines on a man of Weinstein’s wealth is not a reasonable measure to end harassment. It’s more like a license to indulge.

One might argue that the contract applies only to violations of the company Code of Conduct that don’t violate non-criminal laws. On this reading, the contract would not preclude the company from firing Weinstein to remedy his sexual harassment. But given the clear “carve-out” language for behavior that results in indictment or conviction of a crime, it might be difficult to argue that there is an implicit carve-out for non-criminal conduct that violates the law.

Can a company escape, via contract, its legal obligation to fire sexual harassers when that is the only reasonable response to his sexual harassment? I don’t think so. A company violates the law by not firing a sexual harasser under these circumstances regardless of what an employment contract says.

In this case, the contract provisions in question represent very strong evidence that the company did not take reasonable action to prevent sexual harassment. If anything, as noted above, the company’s approach enabled it. Thus, the company’s exposure might be greater by virtue of the contract.

Assuming that Harvey Weinstein’s sexual harassment has been such that the only reasonable response is to fire him, can Weinstein enforce a contract that bars the company from doing so? Again, I don’t think so.

My understanding is that, as a general matter, a party cannot enforce a contract that is contrary to an express provision of law or contrary to the public policy behind a law. Typically, there are exceptions — e.g., where the party seeking enforcement is less morally blameworthy than the party against whom the contract is being asserted or where the violation of law did not involve serious moral turpitude and non-enforcement would be disproportionately harsh in proportion to the extent of illegality.

I don’t see how Weinstein could take advantage of these exceptions on the facts that have come to light.

I emphasize that these thoughts are preliminary and aren’t based on any research performed in preparing the post (I performed almost none). I hope, however, that they provide a solid framework for further analysis and discussion.

NOTE: I have modified this post slightly since it first went up.

&&&&&

+++++

DICK DURBIN PLAYS DUMB ON DREAMERS

2017-10-08

When President Trump put an end to the illegal DACA program, he placed in jeopardy (though not immediately) approximately 780,000 illegal immigrants who had relied on the program to obtain lawful status. At the same time, Trump signaled that he wants Congress permanently to remove these individuals from jeopardy by passing legislation granting them the status they enjoy under DACA. Given the illegality of DACA, such legislation is, in fact, the only way permanently to protect them.

Democrats and pro-amnesty Republicans like Sen. Lindsey Graham have seized upon the president’s invitation to protect DACA participants as a pretext for granting status to a much larger number of illegal immigrants. This class of illegals goes by the label “Dreamers.”

The vehicle for accomplishing this much broader amnesty is the “Dream Act” proposed by Sen. Graham and Sen. Dick Durbin. Doing his best to hide the ball, Durbin stated at a press conference:

We’re aiming at the DACA population, which is 780,000, but Dream Act leaves that open.

That’s rubbish. If Durbin and Graham were “aiming at the DACA population,” they would confine their bill to that cohort. The Dream Act “leaves that open” because it is aiming to grant amnesty to a much larger population.

How much larger? For those like Durbin and Graham who favor extremely broad amnesty, it’s a simple case of “the more, the merrier.” For those who want to protect individuals who entered the DACA program in good faith, but who don’t want to amnesty for millions more, a better answer is required.

Durbin has none, at least not that he’s willing to share. At the same press conference, he said:

I don’t know that we have numbers. We can tell you 780,000 DACA. You have got ask how many are eligible for DACA today that didn’t apply, and I don’t know what that number is. I really don’t. It is going to be more than 780,000, but I don’t know what it is.

John Binder and Neil Munro of Breitbart are more helpful. They cite the pro-amnesty Migration Policy Institute which has estimated that 3.3 million illegal immigrants would be eligible to obtain amnesty under the Dream Act. This number includes 1.8 million who would become eligible for amnesty immediately and 1.5 million who “may become eligible in the future.”

The 1.5 million figure consists mostly of high school dropouts who could become eligible for amnesty by enrolling in — not passing, just entering — a high school education course. It also includes a few hundred thousand children who could apply when the get older.

These numbers don’t take into account chain migration. The Center for Immigration Studies estimates that amnesty for just the DACA population “would result in a surge of potentially double that number of chain migration immigrants” — i.e., roughly 1.5 million people Amnesty for the much larger Dream Act population would, of course, produce a surge of many million more.

Mexicans make up the vast majority of DACA beneficiaries, and presumably of “Dreamers.” According to the CIS report, Mexico has the highest rate of chain migration. Indeed, the most recent five-year cohort of immigrants studied (1996-2000) showed that each new Mexican immigrant sponsored 6.38 additional legal immigrants.

No wonder, Dick Durbin doesn’t want to talk about numbers.

President Trump and congressional Republicans cannot mirror Durbin’s (no doubt feigned) indifference. They should insist that amnesty be limited to the DACA cohort and that it be accompanied by enhanced security and enforcement mechanisms to offset the tendency any amnesty has to encourage illegal entry to the U.S.

If Democrats won’t agree to this deal, the DACA beneficiaries should lose their new status and return to the one they had before President Obama illegally ordered the DACA amnesty.


&&&&&

+++++

TRUMP LIKELY TO DECERTIFY IRAN DEAL; THEN WHAT?

2017-10-04

All indications are that President Trump next week will decline to certify Iran as in compliance with the nuclear agreement negotiated by former President Obama. So report Eliana Johnson of Politico and Adam Kredo of the Washington Free Beacon, among others.

I don’t see how Trump, in good faith, can certify that Iran is complying. Last week the head of the IAEA revealed that his organization can’t verify that Iran is fully implementing the nuclear deal — specifically Section T which prohibits certain activities related to “the design and development of a nuclear explosive device” — because Iran has barred inspectors from military sites where those activities would be occurring.

In addition, Senators Tom Cotton, Ted Cruz, David Perdue, and Marco Rubio have pointed to four ways in which Iran is out of compliance. Any one of them is grounds for non-certification. So, for that matter, is a finding that the agreement is not “vital to the national security interests of the United States.”

If Trump doesn’t certify the deal, what happens then? Eliana Johnson reports that Trump’s national security team has unanimously recommended that the president NOT push Congress to reimpose sanctions on Iran that could cause the deal to unravel. Congress has the power to reimpose sanctions within 60 days of White House non-certification, but is not required to.

In lieu of such sanctions, the White House would serve up new non-nuclear sanctions — ones that don’t violate the agreement with Iran. In addition, the administration would target Iranian-backed militias and terrorist groups, including Lebanon-based Hezbollah, and the financial web that facilitates them.

Iran has warned that if the U.S. reimposes sanctions lifted pursuant to the deal, it might press ahead vigorously with its nuclear program. That threat seems quite plausible.

Clearly, the U.S. would need a plan to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons. John Bolton has developed such a plan. It’s a serious one, as would be expected from Bolton.

However, there’s a good chance, I think, that military action would be required to prevent Iran from becoming a nuclear power in fairly short order following its abrogation of the deal. Is Trump prepared to take military action against Iran or to back such action by Israel?

If not, then reluctance by Trump and/or his team to scuttle the deal is understandable.


&&&&&

+++++

THE CAMPUS FREE SPEECH CRISIS IN A NUTSHELL [UPDATED WITH COMMENT BY JOHN]

2017-09-28

In the video below, a student at the University of California who has stolen the “Make America Great Again” hat of another student defends her theft on the theory that the “f***ing hat” is promoting laws and legislation that are “literally killing people.”

The video illustrates not only the campus free speech crisis, but also the staggering stupidity and blatant racism of the students who are generating that crisis.


UPDATE: This article identifies the anti-white thief as Edith Macias. This is from Macias’ Facebook page. She has posted a video of the theft, along with this message:

Wearing a Make America Great Again cap at UCR… Youre making the decision to intentionally hurt people. “Make America Great Again” coded “Continue the Genocide of POC”.

You feel safe cuz you got the cops and politicians on your side. Youre not safe… just saying. We need to make racists scared. Issa movement y’all. #SnatchAHat #FuckTrump #ChataFlies #Share #FTP

Macias’ threat, coupled with the consistent unwillingness of college administrators to punish students who curb free speech rights, including violently, highlights the need for legislation that protects free expression. We have discussed such legislation, especially the need to impose discipline on students who disrupt free expression on campus, here, for example.

JOHN adds: This encounter took place at the University of California at Riverside, where my great-uncle Ivan Hinderaker was the first chancellor. The main administration building at UC Riverside is Hinderaker Hall. I can only imagine what he would make of the current state of UCR.

To me, what is most striking about the video is how stupid the woman is. She has no business in an institution of higher education. The University of California system was, last I knew, reasonably selective. So how do people this obviously unqualified gain admission? There is, perhaps, an untold story here.


&&&&&

+++++

HILLARY, BUNNY, AND JOHN EDWARDS

2017-09-27

Many decades ago, what is now the Style Section of the Washington Post was called the Women’s Page (or Pages, I don’t remember which). I never read the Women’s Page, but a bit of gossip in today’s paper strikes me as perfect grist for that mill. To be fair, it also relates to style, or the lack thereof.

The Post tells us, per a new book, that heiress Bunny Mellon developed animosity towards Hillary Clinton during a 1994 encounter at the White House. According to the book’s author, Meryl Gordon, Bunny felt that Hillary was insufficiently appreciative of the Rose Garden, which Bunny designed for President Kennedy.

From then on, Bunny referred to Hillary as “the old rag” and “the elf.” Whether Hillary could have avoided these monikers merely by being more into the Rose Garden is unclear. Bunny was, after all, considered an icon in matters of style, according to the Post.

In any case, Bunny Mellon ended up being the biggest financial backer of John Edwards’ runs for the presidency. She also provided the funds — “Bunny money” — that Edwards illegally funneled to cover up his affair with Rielle Hunter.

The Post suggests that Bunny might have backed Hillary in 2008 (or at least not backed Edwards) if Hillary had “stopped and smelled the roses” when they met in 1994. However, the Post acknowledges that Bunny was snowed by John Edwards, whom she also backed in 2004. Gordon writes:

Edwards’s initial visit to her Upperville, Va. mansion in 2005 gave the Kennedy confidante shades of Camelot. “It brings back the excitement of the day John Kennedy walked into the house, before he was elected president,” Mellon wrote at the time. . . .

To be sure, Kennedy and Edwards were both pretty-boy philanderers. Yet, you would expect an icon of style to have spotted important differences between the two. Even John Kerry, a closer facsimile than Edwards of JFK, quickly figured out that Edwards was a phony.

Bunny Mellon was too superficial to do so. But at least she got Hillary about right, even if for the wrong reason.

&&&&&

+++++

STEPHEN CURRY WANTS TO HAVE IT BOTH WAYS

2017-09-23

Stephen Curry is a superstar with the NBA champion Golden State Warriors. The Warriors received an invitation to the White House, pursuant to the longstanding custom of thus honoring championship sports teams.

The Warriors, whose star players and coach are outspoken critics of President Trump, made it known that they were ambivalent at best about visiting the White House. Curry said, “I don’t want to go, that’s my nucleus of my belief.”

President Trump responded by pulling the invitation. He tweeted:

Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team. Stephen Curry is hesitating, therefore invitation is withdrawn!

Withdrawing the invitation was the right thing to do, I think. The Warriors, or at least their core players and their coach, didn’t really want to go. If the team had taken a vote, as was contemplated, it would possibly have caused internal division.

Meanwhile, Trump didn’t want to suffer the indignity of having his invitation rejected outright. The solution: pull the invitation.

Curry, though, has taken umbrage at the president’s tweet. He complained:

I don’t know why he feels the need to target certain individuals rather than others. I have an idea of why, but, it’s just kind of beneath, I think, a leader of a country to go that route. It’s not what leaders do.

I agree with the view that the U.S. President should not get into pissing contests with celebrities, athletes, and the like. But Curry is being disingenuous. Trump “targeted” him because he’s the face of the Golden State Warriors.

Curry is trying to have it both ways. When Curry says he doesn’t want to visit the White House, he’s not viewing Trump as the leader of our country, but rather as a politician he doesn’t like. When Trump fires back, suddenly Curry sees Trump as the nation’s leader.

Curry’s “why little old me?” act borders on the pathetic. If Curry wants to show his contempt for Trump by refusing to participate in the time-honored tradition of the White House visit, that’s his right. But don’t whine when Trump points out that you didn’t want to attend. Don’t hide behind your less heralded teammates and/or your coach by suggesting that others should have been called out too.

Man up.

Meanwhile, I can only laugh at this headline from the Washington Post: “Trump turns sports into a political battleground with comments on NFL and Stephen Curry.” Even if one thinks, as I do, that Trump should abstain from talk that mixes politics with sports, it couldn’t be more obvious that athletes like Colin Kaepernick and Stephen Curry are the ones who turned sports into a political battleground.

I respect their right to do so. But please, let’s not pretend that Trump is responsible for the politicization of sports. That’s the work of deep political thinkers like Kaepernick, Curry, etc., egged on by ESPN and left-wing sports commentators.


&&&&&

+++++

VALERIE PLAME WILSON “OUTS” HERSELF

2017-09-21

Remember Valerie Plame Wilson? She is, to quote Red State, “the former faux deep cover, non-official cover CIA ANALYST” who was not “outed” by Scooter Libby.

Today, Plame re-tweeted with obvious approval an anti-Jewish rant in something called the Unz Review by Phillip Giraldi, the headline of which is “America’s Jews Are Driving America’s Wars.” As Noah Pollak has shown, Giraldi is “a conspiracy theorist obsessed with Jews and Israel.” In his warped view, “scratching the surface of almost any event exposes the sinister machinations of international Jewry.”

The piece that Plame re-tweeted is consistent with this description. Giraldi maintains that “Jewish groups and deep pocket individual donors not only control the politicians, they own and run the media and entertainment industries.” He rejects as “a sham” the notion that these Jews have a “duel loyalty,” arguing that “some of them only have real loyalty to Israel.”

According to Giraldi, Jews use their control over politicians and the media to drive America into war. He proposes “a couple of simple fixes for the dominant involvement of American Jews in foreign policy issues where they have a personal interest due to their ethnicity or family ties.”

First, “don’t put them into national security positions involving the Middle East, where they will potentially be conflicted.” Second, when certain Jews appear on television, the media should be required to label them at the bottom of the television screen whenever they pop up, e.g. Bill Kristol is “Jewish and an outspoken supporter of the state of Israel.”

Giraldi charmingly compares this to “a warning label on a bottle of rat poison – translating roughly as ‘ingest even the tiniest little dosage of the nonsense spewed by Bill Kristol at your own peril.’” I compare it to wearing a yellow star.

When, naturally, Plame was called for re-tweeted Giraldi’s odious attack, Plame defended what she had done. She tweeted:

First of all, calm down. Re-tweets don’t imply endorsement. Yes, very provocative, but thoughtful. Many neocon hawks ARE Jewish.

She also tweeted:

Read the entire article and try, just for a moment, to put aside your biases and think clearly.

Before long, however, Plame back-tracked. She did so through a series of unpersuasive claims.

She stated:

OK folks, look, I messed up. I skimmed this piece, zeroed in on the neocon criticism, and shared it without seeing and considering the rest.

But, having instructed folks to “read the entire article,” it will hardly do for Plame to claim she did not do so herself. Surely, moreover, she read the title — America’s Jews Are Driving America’s Wars. It speaks of American Jews, not “neocons.”

Plame also blamed her re-tweet on the fact that she was moving. She said:

On a personal note, one should not tweet while moving, 8 workmen are in a small space, the dog is going nuts, and kids are texting one asking for things they forgot for school. Social media very unforgiving.

Multi-tasking can be challenging. But it was Plame’s decision to take on the task of re-tweeting obviously anti-Jewish content.

It turns out, moreover, that Plame has re-tweeted anti-Semitic material from the Unz Review in the past. For example, in 2015, following then-candidate Trump’s claim that American Muslims were celebrating the fall of the Twin Towers on 9/11, the Unz Review published a piece entitled “The Dancing Israelis,” claiming that some people celebrating the attack were Israeli. “Trump was right about 9/11,” the subtitle said, “but they weren’t Muslims.”

Plame tweeted a link to the post, writing “I never heard this story about 9/11.”

Plame has also re-tweeted articles by Giraldi, according to Bre Payton of The Federalist. In 2015, she shared a link to a post criticizing the role of Jewish people serving in Congress. “War Inside The Beltway,” the headline read. “Israeli-occupied Congress confronts the White House.”

Giraldi complained that “most of the Congressmen being quoted in the media are Jewish and are openly stating their concern for Israel while the media is uncritically accepting that as a reasonable position.” Plame commended article, particularly the bit about former CIA Director James Woolsey being a “fully owned parasite hovering in a regular neocon orbit. . .”

Was Plame moving that day too?

Plame’s excuses for re-tweeting Giraldi’s latest rant border on the absurd and her belated apology is surely insincere. Plame, the long-time darling of the American left, has outed herself as an anti-Semite.

&&&&&

+++++

DID TRUMP UNSETTLE RUSSIA AND CHINA? LET’S HOPE SO

2017-09-20

The Washington Post reports that President Trump’s statements to the U.N. about North Korea unsettled China and Russia. Trump said that “the United States has great strength and patience, but if it is forced to defend itself or its allies we will have no choice but to totally destroy North Korea.”

China, through a state controlled newspaper, complained that Trump’s threat will “likely worsen the already volatile situation.” It called Trump’s posture an obstacle to “other countries’ efforts to persuade the two antagonists to talk.”

Russia moaned that “any military conflict means the deaths of civilians.” Russia should know, given the huge number of civilian deaths it has helped inflict in Syria.

If Trump’s speech truly unsettled China, that’s a good thing. If there is a way to end or reduce the menace posed by North Korea, it isn’t by “persuading the two sides [North Korea and the U.S.] to talk.” Rather, it’s through Chinese pressure on North Korea or, better yet, Chinese imposed regime change.

An “unsettled” China is more likely to bring such pressure or impose such change than a China that can rely on the continuation of the status quo.

My sense, though, is that we cannot expect China to help with North Korea under any circumstances except possibly (1) the prospect of Japan and/or South Korea developing nuclear weapons or (2) the conviction that Kim Jong Un is crazy. The status quo is agreeable enough to China. It keeps the U.S. off balance in the region and avoids the collapse of a more or less friendly regime, the resulting influx of refugees to China, and the reunification of the Korean peninsula on unfriendly terms.

I doubt that Kim Jong Un is crazy or that the Chinese view him as such. All of his moves that we know about have been rational and, indeed, have promoted his interests which are (1) staying in power and (2) confronting a hostile world from a position of strength.

If anything, he seems more rationale than his predecessors. North Korea’s nuclear program has made great advances under his leadership. Some attribute this to the fact that, unlike his father, he tolerates failure by his scientists. He thus enables his scientists to take risks. This, in turn, produces rewards in the form of a nuclear program that’s ahead of schedule.

If Kim Jong Un is rationale, he’s unlikely to start a war. It doesn’t hurt, though, for President Trump to remind him of the consequences of starting one and, in so doing, perhaps give China an incentive to help us out.

Though the deterrence model seems applicable to North Korea, we cannot be certain that it won’t launch nukes against the U.S. or its allies. We can be pretty certain that diplomacy won’t work and that the cost of a preemptive strike would be too high given the likelihood that Kim Jong Un can be deterred.

Where does that leave us? It leaves us, I think, with two things we should be focusing on: (1) working feverishly on missile defense, (2) assisting Japan and South Korea militarily, especially with a nuclear program if that’s the direction in which they want to go.


&&&&&