+++++

TODAY’S ATTACK REMINDS ME

2017-10-31

Today’s terrorist attack in Manhattan serves as something of a reminder. It feels like an injection of reality into the fabricated partisan hysteria over collusion that otherwise suffocates us. It shoves the nature of the war in which we are engaged in our face where it cannot be ignored for the moment. It reminds us to be grateful for the bravery and readiness of our first responders.

It also reminds me that I am grateful Donald Trump is president and Hillary Clinton is not. No euphemisms will be deployed to characterize the attack as something other than what it is. It reminds me that I am grateful John “jihad is beautiful” Brennan is no longer Director of the CIA and that Mike Pompeo now serves in his place. It reminds me that I am grateful we have our best citizens serving in the highest offices responsible for our national security.

&&&&&

+++++

PAPADOPOULOS? WHODAT??? (2)

2017-10-31

Our friendly former FBI Special Agent with two decades of experience in counterintelligence writes to comment on my adjacent post. I thought readers would find his comments of interest. He writes:

For what it’s worth, I couldn’t agree more.

The description of what Papadopoulos did that got him in hot water makes it clear that he essentially wasted the FBI’s time. But not that much, because it’s also clear that they were asking him questions the answers to which they already knew. Thanks to FISA, which is to say, in effect, thanks ultimately to the Clinton Campaign. In any event, it’s hard to take this business of wasting the FBI’s time terribly seriously when they seem to have been doing so well at wasting their own time.

Did Papadopoulos wear a wire? Who knows? One thing we do know is that if he did that didn’t start until after he was arrested, 7/27/2017, six months after the FBI interviewed him and even longer after he was no longer part of the campaign. Given that timeline, and the fact that his Russia initiatives were resolutely rejected during his days with the campaign, one wonders who in the Trump administration would feel they had no better use for their time than to chat with this sad sack. Certainly no one of importance. The impression one gets is that this was a rather desperate throw of the dice.

Overall, this episode is likely to go down as a public marker of the futility of Mueller’s investigation: is this really the best they could come up with in the way of “cooperation”? And note, there is no suggestion by Team Mueller’s Jeannie Rhee that Papadopoulos’s cooperation produced anything of value (“to provide information and answer questions”), as might be the case when a prosecutor is seeking to persuade a judge to accept a plea agreement. The pathetic nature of the offense pretty much guarantees that the judge will accept the deal.


&&&&&

+++++

PAPADOPOULOS? WHODAT???

2017-10-31
When John Updike’s fictional alter ego Henry Bech was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature , Updike posited the headline reporting the news in the New York Daily News: “BECH? WHODAT???” (The thought was at the same time self-deprecating and self-aggrandizing. Updike was one of the most prominent of those who deserved the Nobel Prize for Literature in the past 25 years while failing to receive it. Now it is Philip Roth all by himself.)

Reading the news of the guilty plea of George Papadopoulos yesterday, I had that Henry Bech feeling. Papadopoulos? Whodat??? Herewith a few notes.

Whoever he is, he’s not very smart. There is no law requiring one to talk to the FBI. There is no law requiring one to answer questions posed by the FBI. There is a law, however, criminalizing false information given to the FBI. In the Statement of Offense unsealed yesterday, Papadopoulos pleaded guilty to the violation of that law in an interview with the FBI on January 27, 2017.

Whoever he is, he was a bit player in the Trump campaign. He served as an unpaid foreign policy adviser who attended one meeting with Trump. All of 30 years old, he shows that the Trump campaign lacked a deep bench in foreign policy expertise or in vetting those whose association might embarrass the Trump campaign.

Papadopoulos was arrested on July 27, 2017. The plea document was dated October 5 and filed under seal. The plea document makes it apparent that he is cooperating with the FBI. His arrest was kept secret, however, so that he could cooperate “prospectively.” Secret cooperation is likely to have included the recording of conversations with others who didn’t know what he was up to. Allahpundit pulls the threads together here at Hot Air.

When Paul Mirengoff read news of Papadopoulos’s plea yesterday, he knew “whodat.” Paul’s analysis of the plea is posted here.

The first nine pages of the Statement of Offense (I’ll refer to it as “the plea document”) are critical. They lay out the facts to which Papadopoulo has agreed. The narrative appears to be based in large part on emails provided to the FBI by the Trump campaign.

The plea document’s paragraph 21 in particular requires a close look. According to paragraph 21, from mid-June through mid-August 2016 Papadopooulos pursued an “off the record” meeting of a Trump campaign representative with Vladimir Putin or the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

The plea document names no one but Papadopoulos. Everyone else is identified only in his or her professional capacity. Papadopoulos sought to arrange a meeting with the Russian through “the professor” based in London (where Papadopoulos was living) and through a Female Russian National (not even given a professional capacity). The references to “the Professor” put me in mind of Irwin Corey. The Female Russian National is the femme fatale. A film noir or dark comedy is struggling to emerge from the plea document.

Papadopoulos was on the make; he nominated himself to attend the meeting on behalf of the Trump campaign. Papadopoulos communicated by email with an unidentified Trump campaign official identified only as “the Campaign Supervisor.” The Campaign Supervisor complimented Papadopoulos on his efforts and encouraged Papadopoulos and another (unnamed) foreign policy adviser to “make the trip[], if it is feasible.”

Papadopoulos’s email communications with the Trump campaign also rope in two (inconsistently capitalized) High-Ranking Campaign Officials. A footnote to paragraph 19 states that the one of the high-ranking officials communicates with yet another campaign official: “We need someone to communicate that DT is not doing these trips. It should be someone low level in the campaign so as not to send any signal.” Paragraph 21(c) states without further explanation that the proposed trip “did not take place.”

What happened? Papadopoulos failed in his efforts to make himself a big shot courtesy of the Trump campaign. To borrow a line from Cool Hand Luke: “What we have here is failure to communicate.” Or to collude. Now Papadopoulos is a tool of Team Mueller and their own big plans.

&&&&&

+++++

CRB: THE DEMOCRATS’ DILEMMA

2017-10-31

The new (Fall) issue of the Claremont Review of Books is in the mail. Thanks to our friends at the Claremont Institute, I have read the new issue in galley to select three days’ worth of pieces to be submitted for the consideration of Power Line readers. (We have three pieces on the Founders in store tomorrow.) As always, wanting to do right by the magazine and by our readers, I had a hard time choosing. You, however, can do your own choosing for $19.95 a year by clicking on the link above and accessing subscription services. At that price the CRB affords the most cost-effective political education available in the United States of America. I enjoy everything in the magazine, including the advertisements. Subscribe by clicking on Subscription Services at the link and get immediate online access thrown in for free.

The essays of William Voegelei have become a staple of the magazine. In the new issue Bill takes up four recent books on the future of the Democrats. His essay is a venture in practical politics, on which Bill is one of my favorite writers. See, for example, his brilliant books Never Enough: America’s Limitless Welfare State and The Pity Party: A Mean-Spirited Diatribe Against Liberal Compassion.

Bill introduces his current essay with the observation that both major parties are in trouble. “As each party’s incapacities and contradictions become more pronounced,” he writes, “our partisan duopoly is experiencing an acute crisis. Republicans and Democrats are now engaged in an unprecedented form of conflict: Mutual Assured Self-Destruction.” Bill does not ignore the ordeal of the Republicans, but he focuses on the Democrats in his essay “The Democrats’ dilemma.” Highly recommended.

&&&&&

+++++

THE SQUEEZE ON MANAFORT

2017-10-31

Politico has posted the 12-count indictment handed up against Paul Manafort and Richard Gates on Friday by the Washington grand jury hearing evidence brought before it by Robert Mueller’s team of all-star prosecutors. The charges all relate or derive from Manafort’s business activities that predate Manafort’s involvement with the Trump campaign (although various related deceptions are alleged to date). I don’t believe that Gates ever had any involvement with the Trump campaign to begin with.

The charges have nothing to do with collusion. As Andrew McCarthy anticipated this past August, they are evidently intended to put the squeeze on Manafort to provide evidence against principals in the Trump campaign.

UPDATE: A man described as a former foreign policy adviser to Trump’s 2016 campaign has also now been revealed secretly to have pleaded guilty earlier this month to lying to the FBI about his outreach to Russian officials. The former foreign policy adviser is one George Papadopolous, whom I have never previously heard of. He reportedly suggested that Trump meet with Russian leaders. I take it that his efforts were unsuccessful but that his guilty plea is indicative of cooperation with prosecutors. The Statement of the Offense has also been posted online.

&&&&&

+++++

WAITING FOR MUELLER

2017-10-30

‘Round about the moment I came to the conclusion it was time to call the whole thing off, CNN reported that Robert Mueller’s team of 16 or 17 all-star prosecutors has secured an indictment of someone for something from the Washington grand jury. The indictment, however, is sealed. Whoever leaked news of the indictment to CNN is guilty of serious wrongdoing. That’s a big story too, but CNN isn’t going to help us out on that angle.

While I think it is time to call the whole thing off, some think it is time for Mueller to exit the scene. The Wall Street Journal and others have expressed the view that it is time for Mueller to step down.

As the relentlessly touted narrative of Trump campaign collusion with Russia has blown up in the faces of the Democrats and their media adjunct, the excitement generated by CNN’s report is almost palpable. Roll Call’s John Bennett, to take just one of many examples, can’t wait for the news later today. He has rendered five possible indictment scenarios. Wired’s Garret Graff provides an interpretative guide. The tension mounts.

The excitement reminds me of the hysteria over the supposedly imminent indictment of Karl Rove by Patrick Fitzgerald during the deranged investigation of the Bush administration for a leak of Valerie Plame’s name by Richard Armitage to Robert Novak. Fitzgerald, incidentally, had been appointed by James Comey. It’s a small world after all.

As Fitzgerald’s cue ball caromed around the table, it took out Cheney chief of staff Lewis “Scooter” Libby, who hadn’t leaked anything to Novak. Libby, it turned out, had spoken with then New York Times reporter Judith Miller.

Maybe Mueller will take care of unfinished business today and put the screws to Rove after all. Mueller is unbound. His charter is broad enough. His staff is deep enough. His budget is unlimited. Go for it.

In Casablanca, Rick famously says to Ilsa, “We’ll always have Paris.” This special counsel thing is like that in its own way. So long as we have President Trump, we’ll always have Mueller.

UPDATE: Well, it’s not Karl Rove and the charges, while “not immediately clear,” do not appear to have anything to do with “collusion.”

&&&&&

+++++

INVESTIGATE THIS (4)

2017-10-29

Doing the work that the mainstream media won’t do, the Daily Caller’s Chuck Ross has compiled a useful timeline bearing on what I have been calling the Trump Dossier. Our friendly former FBI Special Agent with two decades of experience in counterintelligence provides related background on the Attorney General Guidelines for National Security Investigations and Foreign Intelligence Collection. “Without an understanding of them,” he says, “it is impossible to understand the import of what happened and what the investigators are looking at and for.” He explains:

The basic distinction in the AG Guidelines is between Preliminary Inquiry (PI) and Full Investigation (FI). There are some other distinctions, but PI/FI governs pretty much everything. The importance of the distinction is twofold:

1. The predication for each is different–there’s a lower threshold for a PI and a higher threshold for an FI, or perhaps it would be better to say that the predication for a FI requires more specificity.

2. The Guidelines specify what investigative techniques can be used for PI/FI. They are different.

The significance is that FISA techniques can only be used under a FI. Therefore, it’s not possible to take advantage of the low threshold for PI in order to abuse FISA–you must satisfy the requirements for a FI.

The point is that it’s not so easy to invent specific and articulable facts of this sort–especially when you’re talking about a presidential candidate. If you put that in the context here, you’ll see how troubling all this “dossier” stuff is. You’ll also see why I keep saying that they “needed” a FI. Nothing else would give them what they really wanted: putatively legal access to Trump communications.

From all this you can see why I say that the FISA applications are a sort of Holy Grail. Only by reading those can we see how the FIs were justified, and whether they relied on material provided by Steele, whether directly to the FBI or through Fusion GPS. And at that point we can also judge the truthfulness of the representations that were sworn to in those applications. I don’t say it’s a slam dunk, but that’s another reason to haul the people below Comey before Congressional committees–to find out how those things were evaluated, formulated, etc.

All this that we’ve been discussing explains why the Department of Justice and the FBI simply ignored oversight reporting requirements. Comey admitted that he’d been running a FI investigation for nine months without notifying Congress — which is supposed to be done on a quarterly basis. Right, because neither he nor Lynch nor anyone else in the Obama administration would want GOP Congressmen reading what passed for predication for FIs and FISAs targeting Trump (no matter who the named subject might be). That might have led to awkward questions! Like, Waitaminute, how do you know Trump’s a Russian agent, and who told you that?

&&&&&

+++++

PEREZ SAYS

2017-10-29

Democratic National Committee Chairman Tom Perez is not only a lawyer, he served as Secretary of Labor under President Obama and as Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights in the Holder Justice Department. It therefore makes a certain kind of sense that he was invited to give the sixth annual Birch Bayh Lecture at Indiana University’s Robert H. McKinney School of Law.

In his lecture Perez spoke on the subject of “The Lawyer’s Duty: Social Justice, Racial Justice, Economic Justice.” Lawyers in attendance could even receive continuing legal education credit for hearing Perez out.

However, I hope the students in attendance at Perez’s lecture weren’t listening too closely or taking him too seriously. Perez actually said this (audio below): “The Electoral College is not a creation of the Constitution. It doesn’t have to be there.”



The Washington Free Beacon’s Brent Scher posted the audio and reports on Perez’s ruminations here. Scher adds: “The DNC did not respond to an inquiry into whether Perez truly thinks the ‘Electoral College is not a creation of the Constitution.'”

The Free Beacon is in the news for its acknowledgment that it it paid Fusion GPS for research on Donald Trump. Although many have sought to sow confusion about the involvement of a GOP candidate that now turns out instead to be the Free Beacon, please note this: “All of the work that Fusion GPS provided to the Free Beacon was based on public sources, and none of the work product that the Free Beacon received appears in the Steele dossier. The Free Beacon had no knowledge of or connection to the Steele dossier, did not pay for the dossier, and never had contact with, knowledge of, or provided payment for any work performed by Christopher Steele. Nor did we have any knowledge of the relationship between Fusion GPS and the Democratic National Committee, Perkins Coie, and the Clinton campaign.”

&&&&&

+++++

THE KEN BURNS VERSION, CONT’D

2017-10-14

I put everything I had to offer on the Ken Burns/Lynn Novick/Geoffrey Ward documentary The Vietnam War into “Notes on the Ken Burns version.” I think the documentary seeks to fix the record in falsity. To take only one example, as I say in my “Notes,” Burns and his colleagues were apparently unable to find a soldier to recall his service in anything other than shades of disillusion, disgust and shame. Much more remains to be done on this deeply dishonest work to prevent it from becoming the received history of the war.

Wanting to check my own heated reaction to the documentary against the observations of more knowledgeable observers, I wrote Yale’s Charles Hill. Professor Hill is diplomat in residence and lecturer in International Studies at Yale as well as a research fellow of the Hoover Institution.

Before he alighted at Yale, Professor Hill had an incredibly distinguished career in the State Department. In the course of his career in the government he served in Saigon during the climactic period of the Vietnam War (1971-1973). Among the roles he served was that of mission coordinator in the United States Embassy. Molly Worthen covers Professor Hill’s work in Vietnam in chapter 6 of her precocious 2005 biography, The Man on Whom Nothing Was Lost: The Grand Strategy of Charles Hill.

Professor Hill watched the documentary with intense attention. I asked Professor Hill if he would comment on the documentary, however briefly. He responded:

The most repulsive sub-theme starts at the very outset when a veteran says: “I was scared. I hated them. I was SO scared!” This quaking fear of American troops is repeated throughout the 18 hours, often silently with just quick photos of US soldiers with expressions of fear.

In a separate message he commented on the documentary’s depiction of the war after 1968:

When the US and South Vietnamese cause turned the war on the ground in a sharply different direction and began actually to win it (I was there), the cultural elite of Haight-Ashbury and Woodstock, promoted by the media, simply stopped reporting on the war so that the astonishing South Vietnamese victories over the invading North Vietnamese Army on three international fronts in 1972 was barely mentioned. Burns’s aim is to make sure the annoyingly christened (sic) “Millennials” will be locked into the leftist narrative of his own formative years -– to him, the real “Greatest Generation.”

I think we are beginning to get somewhere.

Earlier this week came Philip Jennings’s New York Sun column “Justifying betrayal of Vietnam emerges as the raison d’être of Ken Burns’ Film on the War.” As I did in my “Notes,” Jennings observes: “Burns fails to find even one American or South Vietnamese veteran who wholly supported the war, was proud to have appeared in arms, and sickened by the United States’ abandonment its freedom-seeking ally.” He adds: “There are literally hundreds of thousands of us.”

Yesterday the Weekly Standard published Stephen Morris’s important essay on the documentary, “The bad war.” Morris knows what he is talking about. Written with attention to detail in a carefully modulated tone, the essay makes an important — I would say invaluable — contribution to the record on the documentary. If you have been following the commentary on the documentary so far, you will not want to miss it. As I say, we are beginning to get somewhere.


&&&&&

+++++

THE UNFUNNIEST SENATOR

2017-10-12

The Autumn 2017 issue of City Journal is forthcoming from the Manhattan Institute. It carries my short column “The unfunniest senator.” The column is about Al Franken and his McCarthyite ruminations on two of President Trump’s judicial nominees. Given Franken’s contribution to the blue slip controversy this week, the editors have made the column available online this afternoon. Please check it out.

I am grateful to editors Brian Anderson and Paul Beston for their care with the column and for finding a place for it it in this issue of the magazine. It appears in the issue along with Heather Mac Donald’s brilliant cover story “Are we all unconscious racists?,” which the editors have placed online as a preview.

City Journal is the Manhattan Institute’s beautifully produced quarterly journal of commentary on current events, politics, law, culture and history. Although it is a quarterly, it always seems to me like it’s on top of the news of the day. Regularly featuring the work of Heather Mac Donald, Myron Magnet, Stefan Kanfer and Theodore Dalrymple, among others, it is a remarkable magazine. Readers can subscribe here.

&&&&&

+++++

COLUMBUS DAY & CULTURE WAR

2017-10-09

President Trump has issued the traditional proclamation recognizing Columbus Day with unambivalent praise. That seems eminently reasonable to me. Columbus Day is intended to commemorate the first link in the chain of events leading to the founding of the United States. Those of us who love the United States are inclined to celebrate the day.

Trump puts it this way in the proclamation: “The permanent arrival of Europeans to the Americas was a transformative event that undeniably and fundamentally changed the course of human history and set the stage for the development of our great Nation.” The Trumpian accent here is slight and has the added advantage of being true.

Well, of course, this cannot stand. CNN’s Holly Yan takes issue with Trump’s Columbus Day proclamation in “Trump’s praise of Columbus omits dark history.”

Every day we are inundated with our “dark history” in the media, in our public discourse and in our schools. Can’t Holly Yan wait for the beatings to resume tomorrow? No, she can’t.

Here let me insert a historical note of my own. Columbus Day has become a national holiday pursuant to the congressional joint resolution of April 30, 1934, modified by statute in 1968 (36 U.S.C. § 107), as amended. The statute requests the president to proclaim the second Monday of October each year as Columbus Day. The statute also requests the president to “invit[e] the people of the United States to observe Columbus Day, in schools and churches, or other suitable places, with appropriate ceremonies that express the public sentiment befitting the anniversary of the discovery of America.”

Columbus Day is under assault by the proponents of multiculturalism. The ideology of multiculturalism conducts a permanent offensive against the United States, against its founding principles and against its survival as a country dedicated to the proposition (you know the rest). It seethes with thinly concealed hatred of the United States. It demands that those of us who believe in the goodness of our founding and the rightness of our founding principles get our minds right.

President Obama is of course a forceful advocate of multicultural ideology. In office he served as a leader in the relentless culture war waged by the left on our principles and traditions. Columbus Day seems like a trivial front on which to wage a battle in the culture war, but Obama would not let any such occasion or “opportunity” go to waste.

Obama introduced multicultural ambivalence into presidential proclamations of the holiday and Yan holds them up as an example. Obama’s 2016 Columbus Day proclamation carried this message at its heart:

As we mark this rich history, we must also acknowledge the pain and suffering reflected in the stories of Native Americans who had long resided on this land prior to the arrival of European newcomers. The past we share is marked by too many broken promises, as well as violence, deprivation, and disease. It is a history that we must recognize as we seek to build a brighter future — side by side and with cooperation and mutual respect. We have made great progress together in recent years, and we will keep striving to maintain strong nation-to-nation relationships, strengthen tribal sovereignty, and help all our communities thrive.

More than five centuries ago, one journey changed the trajectory of our world — and today we recognize the spirit that Christopher Columbus’s legacy inspired. As we reflect on the adventurers throughout history who charted new courses and sought new heights, let us remember the communities who suffered, and let us pay tribute to our heritage and embrace the multiculturalism that defines the American experience.

Obama’s 2016 proclamation expanded on the ambivalence expressed one way or another in Obama’s previous proclamations of 2015 (“Though these early travels expanded the realm of European exploration, to many they also marked a time that forever changed the world for the indigenous peoples of North America. Previously unseen disease, devastation, and violence were introduced to their lives”), 2014 (“a history shared by Native Americans, one marred with long and shameful chapters of violence, disease, and deprivation”), 2013 (“they could not have foreseen the ways in which their journey would shake contemporary understanding of the world, or the lasting mark their arrival would leave on the Native American societies they encountered”), 2012 (“As we reflect on the tragic burdens tribal communities bore in the years that followed…”), 2011 (“On this day, we also remember the tragic hardships these [indigenous] communities endured”), 2010 (“Today, we reflect on the myriad contributions tribal communities have made to our Nation and the world, and we remember the tremendous suffering they endured as this land changed”) and 2009 (“These immigrants joined many thriving indigenous communities who suffered great hardships as a result of the changes to the land they inhabited”).

Obama’s Columbus Day proclamations broke with tradition. They introduced into presidential proclamations of Columbus Day the multicultural assault on the holiday. Yan seeks to make it obligatory.

Yan has a yen. She promotes Obama’s break with tradition. She seeks to normalize Obama’s assault on the day. She implies that Obama’s introduction of multicultural doctrine into the presidential proclamation of Columbus Day is somehow obligatory, as though it were part of the statute. She yearns for the restoration of the permanent campaign against the United States to the Oval Office.


&&&&&


+++++

MINNESOTA MACHINATIONS

2017-10-06

Over the past several months I’ve reported the machinations involving President Trump’s nomination of Minnesota Justice David Stras to the Eighth Circuit. The nomination dates back to early May. The nomination remains in limbo. President Trump has yet to nominate candidates for four other vacancies including United States Marshal, United States Attorney and two federal district court judgeships. All these pieces are in play. The principal players dealing with the White House are Minnesota Senator Amy Klobuchar and Minnesota Third District Rep. Erik Paulsen, each of whom has promoted candidates for the vacancies.

Klobuchar has negotiated with the White House over the vacancies in connection with the Stras nomination. The White House has sought to work out a deal with her. She has failed to respond to any of my inquiries on the subject and I’ve quit asking. On August 4, for example, I reported that Klobuchar was promoting Minneapolis attorney Joe Dixon for the position of United States Attorney. Neither Klobuchar nor Dixon responded to my inquiries in that case.

I thought that the Star Tribune would pick up the thread somewhere along the line, although I didn’t think it would take quite this long. It’s a significant story of local interest and beyond. In today’s Star Tribune Stephen Montemayor turns to it in the article “With spotlight on Stras’ Eighth Circuit nomination, new uncertainty for other Minnesota vacancies.”

Montemayor alludes to Klobuchar’s negotiations with the White House. These negotiations have been ongoing for a while although I don’t think they have previously seen the light of day in the Star Tribune. After I wrote about Klobuchar’s promotion of Dixon, I received a message from the White House Counsel’s office asking me to quit writing about Klobuchar while they tried to work out a deal with her; I was annoying her.

Montemayor discusses the various candidates for United States Attorney including Dixon. He also reports: “Sources have said the White House at one point floated the possibility of nominating a candidate recommended by Klobuchar and Franken in exchange for their blessing for a Senate hearing for Stras, who has been described as a priority for the administration.”

Klobuchar has her own suggestions for the district court vacancies. The context of the sentence above suggests that the reference is to these district court vacancies. I believe that Klobuchar has candidates she has been pushing for all the vacant Minnesota positions.

Earlier this week I reported that Klobuchar had returned her blue slip on Justice Stras. Montemayor adds a bit with the help of a comment from Klobuchar: “After Franken announced he would not return his blue slip, thus stalling Stras’ nomination, Klobuchar said in a statement that she would have supported a Senate hearing for Stras, and sources said she indeed returned a blue slip for his nomination. But she also said that the White House ‘will need to provide additional names for the 8th Circuit position.’”

What does this mean? It implies that the Stras nomination will not proceed based on his refusal to return his blue slip on Stras. Klobuchar’s comment calls for further interpretation and commentary that are conspicuously lacking in the article. I gave mine in “Klobuchar shows her blue slip.” At this point I can only observe that this complicated story requires continuing attention and development.


&&&&&

+++++

HOW OBAMA FUNDS THE ANTI-TRUMP RESISTANCE

2017-09-27

Last month the New York Post reported that Attorney General Sessions was reviewing a highly developed form of corruption of the Obama administration’s Department of Justice. The Post report followed up on Ian Mason’s exclusive for Breitbart. Mason’s account made clear that Attorney General Sessions has already ordered a halt to the practice going forward — Mason posted the Attorney General’s June 5 memo on Scribd.

The Post report emphasized the seeds planted by Obama’s DoJ and the questionable legality of the practice: “Attorney General Jeff Sessions is investigating up to $6 billion in legal settlement money that the Obama administration steered toward progressive causes and allies in left-wing advocacy groups….Former Attorneys General Eric Holder and Loretta Lynch regularly arranged for major corporations to make large ‘donations’ to left-leaning groups like UnidosUS — formerly the National Council of La Raza — and NeighborWorks America during settlement negotiations to end banking, environmental, civil-rights, and other federal lawsuits.”

The Post also noted the questionable legality of the payouts insofar as the “groups getting the money were not victims in the cases or parties to the lawsuits, and Republicans say they had no proper claim to the cash.”

Paul Sperry followed up this past Sunday in the New York Post column “How Obama is funding the anti-Trump resistance.” Sperry’s column makes a valuable contribution to understanding the forces against which the Trump administration is now contending.


&&&&&


+++++

IF YOU LIKED IKE

2017-09-27

Dwight Eisenhower was one of the greatest Americans of the twentieth century. As Supreme Commander of the Allied Forces, he led the United States to victory over Nazi Germany in World War II. As president of the United States, he presided over a period of normalcy and peace with many accomplishments that benefited the country. A memorial is to be erected on the mall in Washington, DC, in his honor.

Princeton’s Fred Greenstein rescued the reputation of Eisenhower’s presidency from liberal derision in the groundbreaking 1982 book The Hidden-Hand Presidency. Who will rescue Ike from the memorial to be erected in his honor? The cause is urgent and the time is now.

Frank Gehry is the architect of the proposed memorial. The works of Gehry are a blight upon the land. Gehry’s memorial design features large metal tapestries with images of Eisenhower’s boyhood home in Abilene, Kansas and a statue of a young Eisenhower seeming to marvel at what would become of his life. Gehry presents an intentionally reductionist and mystifying view of Ike. His proposed memorial effects a form of civic degradation at great public expense.

The memorial monstrosity is on the verge of final approval. It is time for intervention by President Trump or Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke. Today at NRO George Weigel reviews the procedural status of the memorial design and calls for a halt.

Weigel’s column is the latest in recent looks at the memorial that include Michah Meadowcroft’s “A whole tapestry of mess” (Washington Free Beacon), Alice Lloyd’s “Drunk history” (Weekly Standard) and Thomas Phippen’s “‘Tangled rat’s nest’ to memorialize Dwight Eisenhower” (Daily Caller).

Prominent art historians and critics have written with great acuity about Gehry’s monstrosity. See, for example, Catesby Leigh’s recent City Journal column “Monumental folly” and former NEH Chairman Bruce Cole’s New Criterion essay “A monumental shame.” Cole’s 2016 New Criterion review of the overstuffed Gehry biography by Paul Goldberger also provides useful background in this context. His review was aptly titled “All that’s Gehrish.”

Cole called out the memorial design in the 2012 Washington Examiner column “Proposed memorial is an insult to Eisenhower.” Cole decried Gehry’s “monumental farce” and offered these specifics:

To be built between the Department of Education and the National Air and Space Museum, it will occupy one of the most prestigious pieces of real estate on the Washington’s already overcrowded National Mall.

The grandiose “memorial” will encompass four acres dotted with random trees and paths bounded by 13 enormous towers, each as tall as an eight-story building. These towers will support colossal screens composed of strips of aluminum, Gehry calls them “tapestries,” but in fact they look like woven chain link fences.

But where’s Ike in all this? Never fear, a single short statue will depict him, as a barefoot country boy from Kansas.

Why? Well, as Gehry explains in his opaque postmodern jargon: “There are people that think this is too big a space for Eisenhower. He wasn’t as important as that space is. Why does he have a space that’s bigger than somebody else?

“He doesn’t. He’s gonna have a little plank, for a little boy. This is an image that’s going to contextualize and modify the location so it can accept that little frontispiece and not get lost in the hubbub of the city. I think it’s going to be very modest.”

Gehry, whose buildings often look like the wreckage of 747s or drunken skyscrapers, purposely subverts the order and stability of traditional architecture.

This is evident in his Eisenhower Memorial, a cross between an amusement park and a golf course, which thumbs its nose at the neo-classical style of the great presidential monuments to Washington, Jefferson, and Lincoln and many of the other buildings that line the mall.

We have a Gehry plane crash here in Minneapolis, on the campus of the University of Minnesota, overlooking the Mississippi River. It is the Weisman Art Museum. As a museum of modern art on a university campus, the design does no damage and provides some comic relief.

Not so Gehry’s proposed Eisenhower memorial. It is an exercise in reduction and forgetting: a postmodern twist on the idea of a memorial.

Cole concluded his column on this fitting note:

Gehry as a true postmodernist believes that there is little meaning in history and certainly no heroes. So instead of the feats of the commander in chief of the Allied Forces in World War II and two-term president of the United States, rising generations will see Ike, in Gehry’s words as “a little boy” lost in the maze of the architect’s ego.

That is, unless, those who still believe in heroes stop this traducing of our past.

This Web site is dedicated to exposing the truth about the Memorial, which, for good reason, has been little displayed to the public (more here).


&&&&&

+++++

GETTING RICH ON POVERTY LAW, OR SOMETHING

2017-09-06

We’ve had the number of the ludicrously misnamed Southern Poverty Law Center for a long time. It is a vastly influential left-wing hate cult operating in the form of a nonprofit fundraising phenom most famous for its supposed “hate map” and related designations. As such, it recalls the old joke about the Holy Roman Empire. It’s is neither poor nor devoted to law, though I would concede it’s based in Montgomery and may even be a center of something or other.

It’s not just rich. To borrow a phrase I first found in Boswell’s Life of Johnson, it has grown rich beyond the dreams of avarice.

Last week the Washington Free Beacon took a look at the SPLC’s most recent (2015) Form 990. It found more than $50 million in contributions and $328 million in net assets. Its business income tax return, from the same year shows that they have “financial interests” in the Cayman Islands, British Virgin Islands, and Bermuda.

Well, that piqued the Free Beacon’s interest. Pursuing the issue in a 2014 tax document, the Free Beacon found that the SPLC transferred hundreds of thousands to an account located in the Cayman Islands:

SPLC lists Tiger Global Management LLC, a New York-based private equity financial firm, as an agent on its form. The form shows a foreign partnership between the SPLC and Tiger Global Private Investment Partners IX, L.P., a pooled investment fund in the Cayman Islands. SPLC transferred $960,000 in cash on Nov. 24, 2014 to Tiger Global Private Investment Partners IX, L.P, its records show.

The SPLC’s Form 926, a Return by a U.S. Transferor of Property to a Foreign Corporation, from 2014 shows additional cash transactions that the nonprofit had sent to offshore funds.

The SPLC reported a $102,007 cash transfer on Dec. 24, 2014 to BPV-III Cayman X Limited, a foreign entity located in the Cayman Islands. The group then sent $157,574 in cash to BPV-III Cayman XI Limited on Dec. 31, 2014, an entity that lists the same PO Box address in Grand Cayman as the previous transfer.

The nonprofit pushed millions more into offshore funds at the beginning of 2015.

On March 1, 2015, SPLC sent $2,200,000 to an entity incorporated in Canana Bay, Cayman Islands, according to Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) records and run by a firm firm based in Greenwich, Ct. Another $2,200,000 cash transfer was made on the same day to another fund whose business is located at the same address as the previous fund in the Cayman Islands, according to SEC records.

What does it all mean? The Free Beacon turned to Amy Sterling Casil for comment. Casil is CEO of a consulting firm for nonprofits. She found the SPLC’s offshore approach unusual: “I’ve never known a US-based nonprofit dealing in human rights or social services to have any foreign bank accounts,” she said. The Free Beacon has much more here, all of it of interest.

Today Jeryl Bier follows up on the Free Beacon’s groundbreaking report with this salient fact: “The Southern Poverty Law Center has $69 million parked overseas.” Jeryl secured statements from SPLC president Richard Cohen and SPLC financial adviser Cambridge Associates. They assure Jeryl that this is all par for the course.

That’s one rich “poverty law center” they’ve got there. The recent contributions to SPLC announced by by Apple and JPMorganChase (noted in the Free Beacon article) constitute little more than a glorified form of corporate waste by which management can bask in the warmth of its self-love.


&&&&&

+++++

WAS IT A HACK OR A LEAK?

2017-08-11

Yesterday the Nation posted Patrick Lawrence’s article on the the purported hack of the DNC email by the Russians in the run-up to last year’s election. Lawrence reports the analysis by former intelligence officials who assert it was something else entirely. Lawrence’s article was posted under the heading “A New Report Raises Big Questions About Last Year’s DNC Hack.”

The “report” comes in form of open letters to the president by a group of former American intelligence officers. The group — Veteran Intelligence Professionals for Sanity (VIPS) — was founded in 2003 and now has 30 members, including a few associates with backgrounds in national-security fields other than intelligence.

The group has written three open letters on the DNC incident, all of which were first published by Robert Parry at Consortium News. The latest is dated July 24 and posted here.

In his article Lawrence notes that “[t]he chief researchers active on the DNC case are four: William Binney, formerly the NSA’s technical director for world geopolitical and military analysis and designer of many agency programs now in use; Kirk Wiebe, formerly a senior analyst at the NSA’s SIGINT Automation Research Center; Edward Loomis, formerly technical director in the NSA’s Office of Signal Processing; and Ray McGovern, an intelligence analyst for nearly three decades and formerly chief of the CIA’s Soviet Foreign Policy Branch.”

Lawrence’s article presents the analysis based in part on “numerous interviews with all of them conducted in person, via Skype, or by telephone.” The analysis leads to the conclusion that the DNC email was not hacked, but rather leaked by an insider.

Lawrence’s article is shot through with the kind of left-wing rhetoric and allegations one might expect from the Nation. McGovern himself is the co-founder of VIPS and a left-wing activist. I take it that VIPS is a left-wing outfit.

The analysis presented by VIPS and reported by Lawrence nevertheless stands or falls on its own merits. It should be judged on those merits. They are, however, over my head. I can only say the analysis is interesting if true.

At Bloomberg View Leonid Bershidsky performs a service. He summarizes the analysis and subtracts the rhetoric. Bershidsky’s column is “Why Some U.S. Ex-Spies Don’t Buy the Russia Story.”

UPDATE: I should have made it clear above that the actual research supporting the analysis was conducted by two anonymous workers — “Forensicator” and “Adam Carter” — working off publicly available information. The VIPS appear to be acting basically as publicists in this case.


&&&&&

+++++

MCCAIN’S SWEET NOTHINGS

2017-07-29

The Star Tribune covers Minnesota Senator Amy Klobuchar in the manner of a public relations firm promoting a client. Thus the Star Tribune follows up on yesterday’s early hours defeat of Obamacare repeal in the Senate. Senator John McCain theatrically cast the decisive vote against repeal with this bombshell, courtesy of Senator Klobuchar herself:

Just before he cast the deciding vote on the Senate’s latest health care repeal bill, Sen. John McCain turned and whispered something in Sen. Amy Klobuchar’s ear: “I’m going to vote ‘no.’ ”

It was past 1 a.m. Friday and weary senators had gathered in the chamber, waiting for the roll call. Vice President Mike Pence was walking around the Senate floor, ready to break the anticipated 50-50 tie if Republican Sens. Lisa Murkowski and Susan Collins joined every Senate Democrat in voting against the so-called “skinny repeal” of select parts of the Affordable Care Act.

“Tensions were high; people had been up late into the night. No one quite knew what he was going to do,” Klobuchar said of McCain.

Then, Klobuchar said, he “came over to our group and I gave him a hug and he whispered, ‘I’m voting no.’”

How did Senator McCain square his vote on Friday morning with previous votes to repeal Obamacare or with his campaign promises to repeal it in the future? The Star Tribune of course overlooks McCain’s betrayal. So far as I can tell from the story, McCain failed to confide his explanation to Klobuchar.


&&&&&

+++++

ENTER MAYOR HODGES, EXIT CHIEF HARTEAU

2017-07-21

In “The loud noise heard round the world,” I wrote that the “loud noise” that the shooting of the unamred and pajama clad healer Justine Damond by Minneapolis police officer Mohamed Noor opens a window onto the sick culture that reigns in Minneapolis. What a crew. Idiot mayor Betsy Hodges perfectly represents it.

Running for reelection this year, Hodges made her presence felt today. Hodges addressed the shooting crisis by firing Police Chief Janeé Harteau. Hodges declared that she had lost confidence in Harteau’s ability to “lead us further.”

How can this be? It was only earlier this year that Harteau came in at number 22 on Fortune’s list of “World’s 50 greatest leaders.”

Harteau was on vacation at the time of the shooting. She held the press conference yesterday afternoon upon her return to town. She offered no information beyond that which had previously been made public by the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension, although she did deflect fault for the shooting from departmental policy and training. That’s what a great leader does.

Minneapolis’s idiot mayor belongs on some such list of great leaders along with Harteau. Back in 2013, the Star Tribune plucked Hodges from the 35-candidate field seeking the mayoralty. The Star Tribune’s endorsement must have carried a lot of weight under the circumstances. “[Hodges] was working at a New Mexico home for the mentally ill in 1992 when three Los Angeles police officers were acquitted in the beating of Rodney King,” wrote the gurus of the Star Tribune editorial board, “and the event sparked her interest in racial inequalities and public service.”

Which reminds me. The Star Tribune is itself an indispensable component of Minneapolis’s culture of left-wing conformity masquerading as tolerance and good will. As the city struggles to understand the killing of Justine Damond, the Star Tribune has yet to confide its views beyond a bland compendium of platitudes and misdirection: “This incident can bring the community together, in a united search for how to prevent such tragedies, or it can further divide along racial and class lines. Let us make a concerted effort toward the former.”


&&&&&

+++++

THE LOUD NOISE HEARD ROUND THE WORLD

2017-07-21

Minneapolis Police Chief Janeé Harteau returned from vacation and held a press conference yesterday afternoon on the shooting death of Justine Damond by Officer Mohamed Noor. The Star Tribune reports on the press conference here along with two-minute audio excerpts. The Star Tribune has also posted video of the entire press conference on Facebook here.

The department’s video of Chief Harteau’s statement is posted on YouTube. I have embedded it below. Please note that the video omits the question-and-answer period that followed Harteau’s statement.



 
Harteau knows little more about the incident than what has been publicly released by the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension. Noor continues to rest on his right to remain silent. He has spoken neither to the BCA nor to the department’s internal affairs unit reviewing the shooting.

Noor was accompanied on the evening of the shooting by Officer Matthew Harrity. Noor’s partner has been interviewed by the BCA. The BCA has released a summary of the interview posted here.

Harrity drove the squad car that responded to Damond’s 911 call with Noor in the passenger’s seat. With lights off, they drove through the alley behind Damond’s residence. Harrity told the BCA that he was startled by “a loud noise” immediately before Noor shot past him out the open driver’s side window of their squad car at Justine Damond as she approached.

Based on the publicly available information, the shooting of Ms. Damond is indefensible. Not a single fact has been brought forward to suggest that Ms. Damond’s shooting was lawful. Noor’s refusal to talk suggests he cannot defend his actions.

Harteau said nothing in defense of Noor’s actions. If anything, she condemned him and disassociated the department from his actions. In her statement she put it this way: “Justine didn’t have to die. Based on the publicly released information from the BCA, this should not have happened. On our squad cars, you will find the words ‘To protect with courage and serve with compassion.’ This did not happen.”

And this: “Having the information that is publicly available right, while recognizing there is an open BCA investigation, I believe the actions in question go against who we are as a department, how we train and the expectations we have for our officers. These were the actions and judgment of one individual.”

And this: “This did not have to happen and, again, Justine did not have to die.”

Translation: Noor didn’t need to kill Justine.

Asked in the question-and-answer period about the possibility that Noor was an affirmative-action hire, Harteau asserted: “This is about an individual officer’s actions. It’s not about race or ethnicity. We have a very robust training and hiring process. This officer completed that training very well, just like every officer. He was very suited to be on the street.”

I don’t think this answers the question. I think it avoids it. Listening to Harteau’s additional comments toward the end of the press conference, I believe she was referring to the department’s field training after hiring.

Minneapolis attorney Robert Bennett has been retained by Ms. Damond’s family to represent their interests in the matter. Bennett specializes in police misconduct cases. He is an outstanding attorney whom I have known for a long time. Bob told the Star Tribune: “It’s quite clearly an improper use of deadly force on someone who it is impossible for me to conceive of as a threat to anyone. I mean she saves ducklings out of the sewer, for God’s sakes.”

If the “loud noise” that startled Officer Harrity illuminates anything, it may be the sick culture that reigns in Minneapolis.


&&&&&

+++++

THE NEW MEANING OF TREASON

2017-07-14

Rebecca West wrote a once well-known book about British supporters of the Nazis during World War II that she called The Meaning of Treason (1947). Harry Kalven’s review is posted here. West famously revisited the subject to take account of the British Communists who spied for the Soviet Union in The New Meaning of Treason (1964). Sidney Hook’s review is here.

When I wrote “The new meaning of collusion” earlier this week, I had West’s 1964 book in mind. In my post I briefly commented on the June 2016 meeting of Donald Trump, Jr. et al. with the Russian attorney who had been held out as offering incriminating evidence against Hillary Clinton that would be of use to Donald Trump’s campaign. Within hours Democrats and their media adjunct were raising the charge of “treason.” Politico reported, for example (with much more at the link):

“Nothing is proven yet. But, we’re now beyond obstruction of justice in terms of what’s being investigated,” Kaine told CNN, when asked if Trump Jr.’s actions were treasonous. “This is moving into perjury, false statements and even into potentially treason.”

While Kaine stressed that nothing is proven, a Kaine spokesperson said the senator “acknowledged the grave impropriety, if proven, of any effort to cooperate with a foreign nation — especially one deemed by our military leaders to be a primary state adversary — to influence an American election.”

Echoes of that sentiment have started to take shape in other corners of Congress. Rep. Seth Moulton (D-Mass.) tweeted out a New York Times report on the eldest Trump son’s emails on Tuesday, noting “if this isn’t treasonous, I’m not sure what is.”

The Democrats and their media friends continue to seek new lows in the degradation of our democratic discourse. At NRO, Dan McLauglin sketches the legal (constitutional) meaning of “treason” and demonstrates its inapplicability to anything involved in this story.

How strange it is for the slavish followers of Barack Obama and loyal supporters of Hillary Clinton to be “normalizing” the slinging of such a charge in this context. For eight years, four of which included Clinton’s inane service as Secretary of State, Obama implemented policies to placate Putin and Russia. Consider the ludicrous “reset” of relations with Russia, or the betrayal of George Bush’s promise of missile defense to Poland and the Czech Republic, or the refusal to provide Ukraine arms to fight Russian-backed separatists.

Let us not forget Obama’s promise of greater “flexibility” to his friend Vlad in Obama’s second term. Vlad appreciated it in his own way. Putin also appreciated Obama’s disparagement of Mitt Romney’s characterization of Russia as our foremost geopolitical adversary. To Obama, Romney was a throwback to another era, lost on the wrong side of history. Suppressing his laughter in public, Putin could work with a guy like Obama.

Even Obama administration policies not expressly designed to placate Putin — policies such as Obama’s hampering the commercial exploration and exploitation of our energy resources, or starving the armed services of resources, or turning Syria over to Putin — served critical Russian interests.

We could expand the treatment of the subject to consider the Obama administration’s deference to, and empowerment of, the Iranian regime. The Iranian regime is of course an avowed enemy of the United States. It seeks death to America. Yet no one in the world did more to preserve it and prop it up than Obama. We will be trying to live with the consequences of Obama’s assistance to Iran for a long time to come.

President Trump has begun to turn many of Obama’s misguided policies around. His policies are already doing damage to Putins’s interests. What is the intelligent observer to make of that? Democrats should think twice before turning “treason” into just another term of abuse. Everything about it is wrong.


&&&&&


+++++

THE ADMINISTRATIVE THREAT REVISITED

2017-07-07
At the RealClearPolicy site, editor M. Anthony Mills has posted a good summary of Professor Philip Hamburger’s critique of the administrative state — the regime of administrative law promulgated and administered by administrative agencies — set forth this year in the inspired Encounter Books pamphlet The Administrative Threat.

I recently noted Professor Hamburger’s pamphlet here. I wrote about Professor Hamburger’s great work of scholarship on the subject — Is Administrative Law Unlawful? (2014) — for National Review in “A new old regime.”

Mills interviews Professor Hamburger in the podcast below (34 minutes). If you have any interest in the subject, this is worth your time.



Toward the end of the podcast they take up the anti-democratic impetus of the case for the administrative state. “Some early progressives were quite candid about this,” Professor Hamburger writes in the pamphlet. Wilson complained of the necessity of the old-fashioned need to persuade voters. He was particularly worried by the diversity of the nation, Professor Hamburger notes, which meant that the reformer needed to influence (this is Wilson speaking) “the mind, not of Americans of the older stocks only, but also of Irishmen, of Germans, of Negroes.”

Professor Hamburger writes: “Rather than try to persuade such persons, Wilson welcomed administrative governance. The people could still have their republic, but much legislative power would be shifted out of an elected body and into the hands of the right sort of people.”


&&&&&