+++++

RAND PAUL ASSAULTED-At His Own House

2017-11-01

On Friday afternoon, at 3:21 PM, Bowling Green, KY police responded to a call at the home of Senator Rand Paul. The Senator had been mowing his lawn when apparently a neighbor, Rene Boucher, is alleged to have come out of nowhere and tackled him, causing minor injuries. Senator Paul was not transported to the hospital. His attacker, Mr. Boucher was arrested and charged with 4th degree assault. According to Kentucky State Police, he was being held in the Warren County Detention Center but has since been released on $7,500.00 bond.


Kelsey Cooper, the Senator’s Kentucky Communications Director, said, “Senator Paul was blindsided and the victim of an assault. The assailant was arrested, and it is now a matter for the police. Senator Paul is fine.”

The Kentucky Board Of Elections has verified that Boucher is a registered Democrat. As well, there is a person of the same name who works as an anaethesiologist in Bowling Green. It is not known if that person is the same person who attacked Senator Paul.

The Senator is said to be fine, having sustained only a minor injury. Mr. Boucher could face up to a year in jail if convicted. The motive for the assault is unknown at this time.

This incident may simply be a feud between neighbors. Or it may be politically motivated. The facts are not yet in. A person ought to be able to mow the lawn without being set upon by a neighbor. Hopefully this man was not acting from a political motive. If he did, that says some negative things about the current beliefs of Leftists. It would seem to show that they believe violence is a reasonable response to political disagreements. But again, the motive for the assault is not yet known. So this is mere speculation until the evidence is made clear by law enforcement.

The American Left politicizes everything. If this attack is political, it seems even lawn mowing is a political statement. This man must have been uhinged about something and he decided to act upon it. And now he may have to go to jail for a year. That is definitely not worth it. His career, his family, none of them mattered in those rash moments. Now he has to face the consequences. One can only wonder what he was thinking about as he raged over to his neighbor’s house and attacked him while he was cutting the grass. Not only is it illegal, it’s foolish to attack a man with a sharp lawn mower.

We may learn the details of the perpetrator’s motivation soon. But until then, best wishes to Senator Paul for a speedy recovery and a much better neighbor in the future!

&&&&&

+++++

L.A. Marches Against Trump- But No March In Sight Against Sexual Abuse In Hollywood

2017-11-02

November 4th was billed as a day to march and protest against our President in cities around the nation, including Los Angeles. The purpose, according to RefuseFascism.org, loosely associated with the violence-promoting Antifa, described the mission as “We are right to do this. For the survival of millions of people around the world, we must do this. For the rights of women to determine the course of their own lives, we must do this. For a future on this planet for all of our children, we must do this.”

Which is actually hilarious since the actual women and children without rights are located in majority Muslim countries around the world, as well as right here at home in Hollywood, where kids and women are being preyed upon by every kind of sexual deviant and abuser. So apparently LA hosted a march for hundreds of people protesting against Trump but who are not marching against the criminal sexual predation of the members of its own local wonderland of lust and power, Hollywood.

Hollywood is imploding with every kind of sordid perversion possible. Even worse, “everyone knew about it” but no one did anything about it. They protected abusers, perverts, pedophiles and sex offenders of every description to keep their careers, their money, and their red carpet moments. Their concern was not for the fans or their art, it was for their pocketbooks, their twisted sex lives and their power.

The Democratic National Committee is also imploding with every kind of sordid cheating, lying and rigging scandal. Even worse, “everyone at the DNC knew about it” and in fact they provided cover for it to protect their influence and power. Their concern was not for the average Democrat voter or for the good of the nation, it was for their pocketbooks, their power base and their prestige.

Additionally, the mainstream media is imploding with every kind of intentional lie, cover up, and collusion with both Hollywood and the DNC. Even worse, “everyone knows about it” in these organizations and they provide cover for their own lies and the lies of Hollywood and the DNC. Their concern is not for truth and journalistic integrity. It is for their own prestige, power and careers.


What do all these groups have in common? They are, by and large, Leftists and Democrats. So once again, the so-called compassionate Left cares more about avenging the 2016 election loss by whining and marching in the streets, than they do about actually protecting women and children. If they cared about stopping the mistreatment of women and children, they’d be out in droves marching in Hollywood, demanding that perverted abusive celebrities and the film companies who promote or ignore the Hollywood rape culture, be brought to justice. But they aren’t. Why? Because the Left literally hates Trump more than they do pedophiles, rapists and perverts. They don’t actually care about women and children, they only want to spew their election-loss hatred for all to see.

So be careful who your heroes are. Be careful which media sources you trust. If you haven’t heard of any of this or not much of this, your media is lying to you. Don’t play along with those who cover up iniquity, enable perversion and only care about money and power and political revenge. Don’t believe the lies of Refuse Fascism and Antifa.

&&&&&

+++++

George H.W. Bush On Trump: He’s A a ‘Blowhard’ Motivated by a ‘Certain Ego’

2017-11-03

In a recent book by Mark K. Updegrove, entitled, The Last Republicans: Inside the Extraordinary Relationship Between George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush, the elder Bush continued the establishment Republican attack on President Trump. His nasty words reflect the current disheartening and exceedingly petulant trend of Republicans refusing to support our current President.


Referring to Trump, former President George H.W. Bush said in the book, “I don’t like him. I don’t know much about him, but I know he’s a blowhard. And I’m not too excited about him being a leader.”

He admits he doesn’t know him. Then he proceeds to say he doesn’t like him and that he “knows” he’s a blowhard. Anyone who claims to know things about someone whom he just said he doesn’t know, is actually the one who is sounding like a blowhard. A blowhard is a person who blusters and boasts in an unpleasant way. Bush’s assertions are certainly boastful and extremely unpleasant. Republicans finally have control of both houses of Congress (thanks to Trump’s coattails) and the White House. And instead of capitalizing on this fact, and promoting Trump’s agenda to make America great again, old guard Republicans like Bush senior and junior are thwarting the agenda and refusing to support the
President. It’s sickening how the Republicans are squandering this opportunity to help real Americans. And it is simply amazing how these two former Presidents said absolutely nothing about President Obama as he enacted his destructive agenda for eight years. But now that there’s a Republican President, they are speaking up and tearing him apart in the media.


Well here’s a newsflash Bush family, we don’t appreciate it. If you had nothing to say about Obama but are attacking Trump, it simply shows that you are useless to the GOP, and are no better than the Leftists trying to destroy this nation. And by the way Bush Senior, the fact that you voted for Hillary is despicably outrageous. Hillary cheated, rigged and stole her way through her years long government career. She would be an utter disaster as President. How can you possibly think she’s better than Trump?

We’d all be better off if the Bush family would simply go back to complete radio silence on the President. Their words are destructive and unnecessary. They don’t know him. They are contributing to party disunity. They are not living in reality.

Americans need what Trump is trying to accomplish. We need lower taxes, we need a stronger border, we need more jobs, we need to rebuild our military, we need to fix healthcare by repealing Obamacare and allowing the free market to take over. But too many so-called Republicans try to stymie Trump at every turn. America voted for Trump and his plan. He is battling against Democrats, Congress, the media, and shortsighted members of His own party; people who would apparently throw all of America under the bus just to achieve their petty goals of stopping Trump. We’ve had enough. Support Trump, keep your campaign promises, and stop denouncing our duly elected President. It’s time for the GOP establishment including the Bush family, to stop interfering like the blowhards they are.

&&&&&

+++++

Trump Makes Fun of Michael Moore Over Broadway Play That Is A ‘Total Bomb’

2017-10-31

President Trump took the opportunity to get a jab in at film maker Michael Moore and his show that closed after only a 12 week run on Broadway. Although Moore claims the show was only meant for the limited 12 week run, it also only pulled in about 4 million, roughly half of what was projected.

Trump tweeted out, “While not at all presidential I must point out that the Sloppy Michael Moore Show on Broadway was a TOTAL BOMB and was forced to close. Sad!”

While not at all presidential I must point out that the Sloppy Michael Moore Show on Broadway was a TOTAL BOMB and was forced to close. Sad!

— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 28, 2017

Moore responded in a series of 11 tweets. Seems like Trump’s poke got him pretty irritated, to the point of an 11 tweet firestorm. The show, entitled “The Terms of my Surrender,” which was about Moore’s life and also a diatribe against our duly elected President, apparently did not pull in as many people as hoped. It’s not hard to figure out why. Few people want to see a show about the life of Michael Moore. He’s got a history of strange projects and bitter political rants, which, quite frankly, are rather unhinged and predictably Leftist. Why see Michael Moore in a one man show on Broadway when you could just not?

1) You must have my smash hit of a Broadway show confused with your presidency– which IS a total bomb and WILL indeed close early. NOT SAD https://t.co/URgXgzWWVk

— Michael Moore (@MMFlint) October 29, 2017

The show closed after only 100 shows. It was intended by Moore to “bring down a sitting President.” Too bad he didn’t put that show on during the previous administration. The nation could have used it.

Moore, like the rest of the American Left, seems unable to function since Hillary lost to Trump. The morning after the election, Moore posted this on Facebook, “Any Democratic member of Congress who didn’t wake up this morning ready to fight, resist and obstruct in the way Republicans did against President Obama every day for eight full years must step out of the way and let those of us who know the score lead the way in stopping the meanness and the madness that’s about to begin.”

Meanness? Madness? If there is meanness and madness, it resides within the mind of Michael Moore, who regularly dishes out vitriol aimed at Trump, Trump supporters, Republicans, Conservatives and anyone who doesn’t live on the East or West coasts. He’s a typical Hollywood elitist Leftist who thinks he knows what’s best for us. He’s for every harebrained Socialist idea in existence and is condescending to regular Americans.

Presidential or not, Trump’s tweet about the failed show is well deserved. Here it is again for our enjoyment, “While not at all presidential I must point out that the Sloppy Michael Moore Show on Broadway was a TOTAL BOMB and was forced to close. Sad!”

Sad definitely describes an entire show consisting of Michael Moore ranting about President Trump. Good riddance to bad rubbish. Buh-bye bad Broadway Show!

&&&&&

+++++

Authorities Learn SICK Truth: Mother Drove Off 50 ft. Cliff Killing Her Three Kids Deliberately

2017-10-30

Last year, in June, Lucky Peak Lake, in Idaho’s Ada County, was the very unlucky and horrible scene of a tragic quadruple death. A mother and her three children, all of them inside the family’s Land Rover SUV, were found forty feet underwater, off a cliff that was fifty feet high. The vehicle plunged from the cliff above. The news shocked and grieved the community.


The deceased included 40 year-old Noel Bankhead and her three children, all with the same last name of Voermans; Anika, 13, Logan, 11, and Gwyneth, 8. After investigating the deaths for over a year, the Ada County Coroner has stated that the June 2, 2016, deaths were a triple homicide-suicide. There were no skid marks or any indication that Noel tried to stop the car from plunging over the cliff, it appears as though she lined up the vehicle and simply drove forward, killing all aboard. The mother and her children all died from drowning related to blunt force trauma, no doubt suffered in the fifty foot drop from the cliff to the reservoir where they were found.


No motive has been given. The killer, Noel Bankhead, had been divorced for two years from the children’s father, Robert Voermans, at the time of the crime. Toxicology results show she had no alcohol, medication, or other mind altering substances in her system when she drove the car off the cliff with her three children inside.

According to witnesses who spoke to authorities, they saw the mother turn off the highway at the top of the cliff, position the car facing the reservoir and suddenly accelerate, killing herself and her family.


The investigation did not turn up any kind of mechanical malfunction with the vehicle, adding further credence to the appearance that she acted deliberately in taking the lives of herself, her two daughters and her son. Left behind is their father, Robert.


There simply isn’t any way to know what was going through this mother’s mind as she planned and executed a triple murder-suicide. What kind of mother violently kills her own three children? No matter how terrible life may seem, there can be no justification for this murderous behavior. A dad is left to grieve for his children over the course of his entire life, wondering what he might have missed or could have done to prevent it.


There simply are no words to describe the horror of this tragedy. It’s too late for this beautiful family. But it’s not too late for others. If you or someone you know is struggling with suicidal or homicidal thoughts, please get them help. Please don’t ignore what they say or do or dismiss it as only words or false threats. Real people died that day on June 2, 2016, and three of them weren’t planning on it. Intervention is not only recommended, but absolutely necessary. Do not hesitate to call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 800-273-8255 or 911 to get help for yourself or someone you know. Your life and the life of those you love is worth it.

&&&&&

+++++

More Than 30 Women Accuse Director James Toback Of HORRIFIC Sexual Harassment

2017-10-29

The depth and extent of the sexual perversion that infests the Hollywood Swamp is still unknown. Harvey Weinstein was exhibit A in the sex swamp, but the revelation of his perversion is only scratching the surface of the depravity that is the acting and movie business. While the nation is still nauseous and outraged about Weinstein, yet another Hollywood mogul has been exposed for his perversion, by multiple women.


38 women spoke out about the sexual monstrosities of James Toback. 31 of them went on record. The accounts of these women all included a litany of despicable behaviors including, but not limited to, asking them to remove their clothes to audition, asking them humiliating intimate questions, simulating sexual intercourse on them, engaging in self-gratification while they were in front of him and asking them to pinch his nipples or look in his eyes. They all accuse him of asking them to meet him in parks, hotel rooms and restaurants, almost always ending in his hotel room with him self-gratifying in their presence.

Of course he promised them movie roles and big careers even as he violated them in the most disgusting intimate ways. He told many of the women that he “needed” to self-gratify upwards of seven times daily in order to function properly. Now, after having been publicly accused of these heinous acts, he’s claiming he couldn’t have engaged in these reprehensible behaviors because he’s diabetic and has a heart condition.

Tell it to someone who cares, Mr. Toback. You’ve been revealed for the sick pervert that you are. Over the years that Toback performed these sick acts, not a single actress or person ever came forward to law enforcement. Which explains why he was able to get away with this for years and years. And just as with Harvey Weinstein, everyone in Hollywood knew about his twisted predilections. And no one did anything about it; not his victims, not his peers, not his family. He was enabled to sexually terrorize countless women because no one spoke up.

Sexual predation is never the victim’s fault and it takes great courage to speak up about the crimes of a powerful person. If only someone had been able to find that courage, James Toback and Harvey Weinstein might not have been able to get away with this for years.

And this leads to the question, how many more Hollywood moguls are sexual predators with countless victims? We can only hope that current victims of these evil people will be brave enough to go public and go to law enforcement. The sooner these creeps are stopped, the fewer victims they will have. Hollywood, stop covering for predators and stand up to shut them down for good. They only get away with it because you remain silent.

&&&&&

+++++

Soldier’s Widow Says Trump Called Just Days After LOSS – Wants Us To Know The Truth

2017-10-28

This week, a new low in our national discourse was marked by Congresswoman Frederica Wilson, a Democrat from Florida. Ms. Wilson was riding inside a vehicle with the widow of Sgt. La David Johnson, one of four US soldiers killed in an ambush in Niger, during the time when President Trump made a phone call to the widow to offer his condolences.

President Trump personally made the decision to call Mrs. Johnson. And, among some other remarks, this is what he said, “…they know the risk, they know what they sign up for but they still volunteer to put their lives on the line for their fellow Americans. We owe them a debt that can never be repaid.”

Representative Wilson, in a classless political move, leaked the contents of the President’s phone call. But she didn’t leak the entire quote, she selectively edited his words, to make it appear that the President had been insensitive and coarse to the fallen soldier’s grieving widow. In other words, she lied, just as the Left always does, in order to promote their anti-Trump agenda. At a time when political gamesmanship was the very last thing Frederica Wilson should have been thinking about, she launched a complete lie about the President, using the grief of a soldier’s widow as her platform. Not to mention she had been privy to a private conversation in that vehicle. She did not respect that privacy at all, choosing instead to go public with her ugly accusations and even uglier politics.

Well, there’s another widow who wants the truth to be known about the manner in which President Trump interacts with the loved ones of our fallen heroes. And her name is Natasha De Alencar. Mrs. De Alencar lost her heroic husband, Army Staff Sgt. Mark R. De Alencar, in Afghanistan on April 8. He was killed during a gun battle with Islamic State terrorists.


As her children gathered around the phone, here is what President Trump said to the De Alencar family, “I am so sorry to hear about the whole situation. What a horrible thing except that he’s an unbelievable hero and you know all the people that served with him are saying how incredible he was, and just an amazing, an amazing guy. I just wanted to call you and just tell you that he’s a great hero.”

President Trump also invited the family to visit him in the Oval Office, saying, “If you’re around Washington, you come over and see me at the Oval Office, OK?”

Mrs. De Alencar characterized the phone call this way, “It was a moment of niceness that we needed because we were going through hell.”

The idea that the President would be flippant about the death of an American hero is simply without merit. That anyone believes it is outrageous. And Congresswoman Frederica Wilson of Florida should be ashamed of herself for her intentional lies about what the President said. It is indecent and not the caliber of behavior our elected officials should be demonstrating. These fallen soldiers are heroes and their loved ones are our Gold Star families that need love and support. They do not need to be prayed upon by Leftist political mercenaries. And that is exactly what Frederica Wilson did. She lied and used a Gold Star widow to score political points. Shameful.

&&&&&

+++++

Critically Wounded Vegas Shooting Victim Takes Her First Steps Since Emerging From Coma

2017-10-28

27 year-old Tina Frost, a Maryland native, left San Diego with her boyfriend, to drive to Las Vegas and attend a music festival there on October 1. She was at the Route 91 Harvest Festival, when, in one instant the entire trajectory of her life was changed. Stephen Paddock, holed up high above the concert in a hotel room on the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay, shot Tina through the right eye, shattering the front portion of her skull and her forehead and putting her in critical condition. She was transported to Sunrise Hospital and Medical Center where she underwent 3 hours of surgery. The surgery removed a piece of her forehead bone in order to allow for her brain to swell. Also, the surgeon was forced to remove her damaged right eye. Tina was initially in a coma, on a ventilator and no one really knew if she would wake up or even walk again.

But Tina is a fighter. On the GoFundMe account set up by her mother Mary Watson Moreland, where she also posts updates on her daughter’s condition, there was some good news!

“Today has also been a big day for our TT – she is now waking up! She opens her left eye just a lil and looks all around the room at us, taps her feet whenever music is playing, continues to squeeze our hands, and even gives Austin a thumbs up when asked. She sometimes taps to music and also took her first steps today with the assistance of the nurses – 3 steps to the chair and 3 steps back to the bed. She’s obviously anxious to get her wobble back on. She also breathed on her own for a full 6 hours! We are so proud of our Tina, and everyone is amazed at every single movement she makes. EY San Diego sent a colorful RARE Science teddy bear that she hugs and pats on the back to show us she likes him :). The Jabbawockeez (won America’s Best Dance Crew) paid her a special visit today in her room and they also put on a little show for the hospital.”

The GoFundMe has raised over $500,000.00 for Tina’s care and her long journey to health. Her mother added, “The doctors have been talking about Tina’s next steps and are discussing other hospitals that will have all the specialists she’ll need during her long road to recovery. We’ll know more soon about where we will be next. Thanks for all the thoughts and prayers!”

Violent evil murderer Stephen Paddock killed 58 people and injured over 500 more, that day in Las Vegas. But Tina Frost is determined to rise up and reclaim her life. We wish Tina all the best in her recovery. And may her story continue to inspire all who read it.

&&&&&

+++++

MS School Dist Erases ‘To Kill a Mockingbird’ From Lesson Plan – ‘Makes People Uncomfortable’

2017-10-27

A Mississippi school district has finally killed the mockingbird for good. Based on complaints from some parents in the Biloxi School District, the book has been removed from the curriculum, because it “makes people uncomfortable,” notably because it contains the “N” word, among other reasons.

To Kill a Mockingbird is the magnum opus of author Harper Lee and has been in school curriculums nationwide since it was written in 1960. Lee passed away in 2016 at the age of 89. The lesson of the book is one that affirms we are all equally valuable no matter our race and that we all deserve a fair shot at life and at justice. This fact seems to have escaped the complainers, who, based simply on the the book’s intentional and contextual language, have decided it’s not worth reading. Their ignorance and shortsightedness is astounding in its depth and tragic in its effects. Now, these students in this district will not have the benefit of the excellent lesson in humanity that this book has taught generations. One wonders if the complainers have actually read the book, or just thumbed through, found some ugly language and dismissed it.

School district pulls 'To Kill A Mockingbird' from reading list; 'makes people uncomfortable,' official says https://t.co/l5yIKIi1Ux pic.twitter.com/usLg3SZWov

— AL.com (@aldotcom) October 13, 2017

The hypocrisy is stunning. On the one hand, folks across the nation are saying we need to improve race relations, to love one another, lift each other up. And here is a book that does exactly that, that celebrates the inherent value of every life and it’s been removed from this district’s teaching syllabus.


The book was made into a film which was released in 1962. It won three Academy Awards, including best actor for Gregory Peck. Many if not most, school districts across the nation, still use this groundbreaking novel in their curriculums. But not the Biloxi School District. Their 8th graders will not be able to have the constructive discussions the story engenders in the classroom.

The real irony here is that rap music is literally filled with the filthiest language including the “N” word, sick profanity about women, as well as imagery of killing, doing drugs, committing crimes and gang banging. If there is something that “makes people uncomfortable,” it should be the filth that comes out of the mouths of some rappers. They are not telling a story about the value of all human beings. They are degrading and demoralizing anyone who listens.

Harper Lee has made a monumental contribution to the national discussion with her book. And it is one worth reading. But by all means, complainers in Biloxi, continue to put your head in the sand and make snap judgments based on accurate and contextual language. Your children will pay the price with ignorance. Censorship always comes masked as morality. But censorship is the exact opposite of morality. Here’s hoping this decision isn’t contagious around the nation.

&&&&&

+++++

Gov Lawyers Request Judge Block Release Of Comey Memos – Would Harm Investigation

2017-10-26

Lately, the news has been filled with the abject horrors of natural disasters like hurricanes and wildfires, and the manmade disaster of the Las Vegas massacre. But while we are all not looking, behind closed doors in Washington, the investigation into the fictional Trump/Russia collusion continues unabated. The most recent development in this waste of taxpayer money occurred Friday, as government attorneys filed to stop the release of the so-called Comey memos. The memos had been requested under the Freedom Of Information Act, by several news organizations including CNN, USA Today and the Daily Caller.

But attorneys for the government claim that releasing them would be “detrimental” to the ongoing investigation. The memos in question were written by James Comey, the former FBI Director, fired by Trump last May. Comey testified that he had written them after his meetings with Trump. And apparently these news organizations believe there is something of interest to be found in them.

In the government’s filing on Friday, the lawyers claimed that making the memos public would “reveal the scope and focus of the investigation and thereby harm the investigation” as well as potentially hinder prosecutions.

The attorneys said, “Publicly explaining in any greater detail why the release of the Comey Memos would be detrimental to the pending investigation would itself disclose law enforcement sensitive information that could interfere with the pending investigation.” They suggested an alternative; that an FBI employee come forward to explain how sensitive they are and why they should not be released.


It’s a bit difficult to know which side to root for here. On the one hand, these government lawyers appear to be in favor of the illegitimate investigation into Trump/Russia. On the other hand, what are they afraid of if the memos are released? It almost seems that if these pro-Trump/Russia investigation attorneys want them kept secret, then it would be a good thing for them to be made public. Additionally, and perhaps most importantly, they are the personal memos of James Comey, written, he said, after his meetings with Trump. Under no circumstances would they contain actual evidence of anything. They are the personal ramblings of a guy who has been shown to be decidedly anti-Trump himself. A memo isn’t fact and it isn’t incontrovertible. It’s basically note taking with lots of room for error and bias. And Comey could have written anything in those memos, true or not. His allegiances shed doubt on how trustworthy these memos really are. He could have simply made it all up. And given that he is the one who made it known that they existed, he likely had an agenda behind it. He was and is out to sabotage Trump and his plans for this nation. Comey and his memos cannot be trusted. They are the ramblings of a man who hated his boss.

&&&&&

+++++

OUTRAGE! Sanctuary City Allows Illegal Alien To Stay In U.S. Then He Kills Sheriff

2017-10-25

A year after killing a sheriff’s deputy in Johnson County, Kansas, a criminal illegal alien has pled guilty to that crime. Adrian Espinosa-Flores was driving with a blood alcohol level of over twice the legal limit and while driving under the influence, rammed his car into a parked SUV and a sheriff’s vehicle, killing Master Deputy Brandon Collins who was conducting a routine traffic stop. At the time Espinosa-Flores admitted he had been drinking. The criminal illegal alien pled guilty to charges of reckless second degree murder.


But the question is, did this really need to happen? Or could it have been prevented? And the unfortunate answer is that, yes, had certain jurisdictions followed US immigration law properly, this criminal would have been deported and unable to kill a sheriff’s deputy.

In Los Angeles County, this illegal alien was convicted of DUI. LA County did not notify ICE of this fact. Also, in 2013 in Overland Park, Kansas, the Police Department arrested him for driving without a license. And they did not notify ICE either. So, here’s a criminal illegal alien being arrested and convicted in two places, with neither reporting these facts to ICE. As a result, an officer in Kansas is dead.

US Senators Charles Grassley (R-IA) and Andy Alcock (R-KS) wrote to Jeh Johnson, the DHS Secretary at the time of this incident, to open an investigation into the fact that LA County failed to report. They said, “It appears that Flores was able to evade removal by taking advantage of at least one sanctuary jurisdiction. As a result, a law enforcement officer was killed, allegedly by Flores while again driving under the influence.”

A spokesperson for ICE, Shawn Neudauer, said, “ICE was not notified by authorities in California or Kansas of either arrest.”

Grassley and Alcock drew the conclusion that, “It seems Deputy Collins died at the hands of someone who broke our laws and should not have been allowed to remain in the United States following his multiple interactions with law enforcement.”


Which brings us to the recent legislation signed by Democrat California Governor Jerry Brown, that makes the entire state of California a sanctuary state, meaning law enforcement’s hands are tied and they will be unable to notify ICE of illegals who break the law. This is outrageous. The idea that illegals, who are breaking the law merely by being in the United States, are receiving protection from the state government of California, is reprehensible. California officials don’t actually care at all about protecting Americans from criminal illegals. And because of that fact, Deputy Collins is dead in a heinous crime committed by a despicable man who should not have been in the country at all.

California and anywhere else that protects lawbreaking illegals should be made to answer for their crimes against Americans. And they should lose every cent of federal funding. We are less safe because of their negligence. These places are themselves, breaking the law by not abiding by immigration laws and rules. It’s time to start holding these elected officials responsible for the crimes these sanctuary illegals commit. Rest In Peace, Officer Collins. You deserved better.

&&&&&

+++++

California Hepatitis A Outbreak Is Now On The Verge of A Statewide Epidemic

2017-10-24

In California, a Hepatitis A outbreak of nearly epidemic proportions is infecting and threatening to infect huge numbers of homeless people living in makeshift tent cities located from San Diego, all the way north to Sacramento. The contagious disease, characterized by jaundice and flu-like symptoms, can lead to death in some cases. 17 have died and 569 people have been infected in the 11 months since the outbreak began in San Diego last November. Major cities up and down the state have been affected.

Cities all over the state are scrambling to contain the outbreak by disinfecting streets and trying to get homeless populations to be vaccinated. But many homeless are trying not to be found, due to trouble with the law or other reasons and resist getting the shots. The problem is particularly complex.


The last numbers available on Hepatitis A, from the CDC, are from 2015. That year, nationwide, 1,390 people were reported infected. In that year, California had 179 cases, as opposed to the high totals for this current outbreak.

California has over an estimated 115,000 homeless people. And laws have been passed in multiple locales that prohibit law enforcement from enforcing housing ordinances, allowing the tent cities to grow uninhibited.

Although no one knows the exact reason for the outbreak, it is thought that it may have started when San Diego made an effort to clean up the area around Petco Park for the MLB All-Star Game. The city caused the homeless, the prostitution trade and the drug dealers to move to areas away from the downtown tourist venues. In an effort to bring that about, the city locked public restrooms. Additionally, San Diego banned the use of plastic bags, which have long been used by the homeless to dispose of human waste when there are no public bathrooms. It is thought that this set of circumstances has contributed heavily to the Hepatitis A outbreak.

The Left, as personified by California politics, is always lecturing the rest of the nation on how heartless they are, how they need to help people, especially the homeless. And it is Californians who have made it more difficult for the homeless in their state. The Leftists in California’s cities have made rules that make life harder and more medically unsafe for those who are living in the streets. The Left is always trying to claim the moral high ground. But the policies of the Left don’t work. And now the citizens of California are paying the price.

Dr. Monique Foster, who is an epidemiologist with the Division of Viral Hepatitis at the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said the outbreak will likely continue, even with efforts to contain it, “It’s not unusual for them to last quite some time — usually over a year, one to two years.”

Californians, this is your tax dollars at work.

&&&&&

+++++

Mia Love LEVELS Michelle Obama: ‘I Am a Black Republican Who Cares About America’

2017-10-11

A few days ago, former First Lady Michelle Obama made some racist comments about the Republican Party. She continued the divisive rhetoric we’ve all grown used to hearing during her husband’s two terms as President. Here’s what she said, “It’s a feeling of color, almost. On one side of the room, it’s literally gray and white, literally, that’s the color palette on one side of the room. On the other side of the room, there’s yellows and blues and whites and greens. Physically, there’s a difference in color, in the tone. Because one side, all men, all white. On the other side, some women, some people of color.”

As always, the Left sees everything in terms of color. People who see always and only, color, when they look at other people? There’s a term for those folks. They are sounding and acting a lot like racists. It is simply ridiculous how the political Left cannot get through a day without referencing race.

As well, Mrs. Obama insinuated that women who voted for Trump over Hillary were voting against themselves. One can only wonder if that was also true for the women who voted for her husband instead of for Hillary in the Democrat primary? Mrs. Obama said, “Any woman who voted against Hillary Clinton voted against their own voice. What does it mean for us as women that we look at those two candidates, as women, and many of us said, that guy, he’s better for me, his voice is more true to me,” Obama added, “Well, to me that just says you don’t like your voice. You like the thing you’re told to like.”

We also have a word for folks who look at everyone and see them in terms of gender and attribute every bad outcome to gender inequality. We call them sexists. So Michelle Obama is actually behaving like a card carrying racist and sexist in these comments she has made.

And House Republican Mia Love, has something to say about it.

“I don’t know if she noticed, but I am not white and I am not a male. This is the way that Democrats try to win elections instead of winning on the policies that actually help the American people and unite us. This is absolutely divisive language.”

Love went on to say, “I don’t fit in a box. I am a wife. I’m a mother. I’m a Utahan. I am a black Republican who cares about America and cares about all people.”

Love, who notably also gave a moving speech at this year’s March for Life in Washington D.C., has a solid record of being for actual political inclusion of everyone, instead of just talking about it. Michelle Obama claims to be for inclusion, while making divisive statements about race and gender.

Thank you Mia Love for your common sense and uncommon courage in publicly standing up against political bullies like Mrs. Obama.

&&&&&

