+++++

Alabama GOP Officials Giving Roy Moore A Pass On Sexual Assault Allegations

2017-11-09

A number of Alabama Republican officials dismissed allegations of sexual misconduct against their Senate GOP nominee, former judge Roy Moore, as suspect and overblown on Thursday.

Leigh Corfman told The Washington Post that Moore, then a 32-year-old assistant district attorney, took off her shirt and pants and removed his own clothes in one 1979 incident. He touched her through her bra and led her hands to touch him through his underwear, she said. She was 14 at the time.

Three other women who spoke to the Post ― for a deeply reported article that was published Thursday ― said Moore had “asked them on dates when they were between 16 and 18 and he was in his early 30s.”

While most Senate Republicans immediately distanced themselves from Moore, maintaining that he ought to withdraw from the race if the allegations are true, GOP officials in Alabama stood by the prominent Ten Commandments advocate.

“He’s clean as a hound’s tooth,” Alabama State Auditor Jim Ziegler said in an interview with The Washington Examiner, before invoking the Bible to defend Moore.

“Zachariah and Elizabeth for instance. Zachariah was extremely old to marry Elizabeth and they became the parents of John the Baptist,” Ziegler said. “Also take Joseph and Mary. Mary was a teenager and Joseph was an adult carpenter. They became parents of Jesus.”

Alabama Secretary of State John Merrill called the sexual allegations against Moore “just another piece of information that will allow [voters] to make their decision.” He further questioned the timing and source of the Post’s report.

“It’s odd to me that this information has just been introduced,” Merrill told HuffPost. “In all the campaigns Judge Moore has ever run before ― and he has run a lot of them, probably a dozen campaigns ― it’s very, very odd to me this information has just been introduced.”

Alabama is home to many “outstanding news people,” Merrill added, and “not one of those people has ever been able to” unearth the allegations in the Post story. 

Madison County GOP Chairman Sam Givhan echoed the sentiment.

“I’m obviously suspicious. After all, some of these allegations are 40 years old,” Givhan told HuffPost. “The man’s been elected twice. Run two other times. Never came up before. Pretty amazing, the timing of this.”

Other Alabama county GOP chairmen cast doubt on the allegations ― and expressed their unwillingness to vote for the Democrats’ nominee, Doug Jones ― in interviews with Toronto Star reporter Daniel Dale:

Huntsville Mayor Tommy Battle, a Moore supporter who’s running for governor, did not take such a dismissive attitude, saying that the former judge “does not need to be the Republican candidate for Senate” if the allegations are proven to be true.


Alabama law prohibits withdrawal of a candidate’s name within 76 days of the election, so Moore’s name will remain on the ballot regardless of whether he steps down. Indeed, given his well of support in the deep-red state, not to mention his dominant position in the polls ahead of the Dec. 12 election, it’s hard to see Moore going anywhere.

“Unfortunately, there’s probably still a pretty good chance [he will win],” a Republican who founded the Facebook group “Republicans for Doug Jones” told HuffPost. The page has more than 1,300 followers.

“People are so stuck in that two-party mentality that it’s [hard] to break out of that mold,” said the individual, who had supported Donald Trump. “A lot of the resistance that I’m hearing from people who are Republicans and still say they’ll vote for Moore is the whole abortion thing [and Jones’ position on it].”
&&&&&

+++++

Senate Unveils Rival Tax Bill, Setting Up Showdown With House

2017-11-09

WASHINGTON ― Senate Republicans on Thursday unveiled their own version of tax reform legislation that will shower benefits on corporations and the wealthy.

The bill adheres to the basic framework laid out by congressional leaders and the White House in September, which called for cutting the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 20 percent.

“The most excited group out there are big CEOs, about our tax plan,” White House economic adviser Gary Cohn said this week.

But the Senate version of the legislation contains several key differences from a House bill introduced last week, and it won’t be easy for lawmakers in the two chambers to reconcile their competing visions for reform.

Unlike the House bill, the Senate bill fully repeals a tax deduction that allows households to reduce their taxable income by the amount they pay for state and local taxes. Bending to pressure from Republicans in high-tax states like New York and New Jersey, House leaders retained a deduction for property taxes up to $10,000.

But in the Senate, no Republicans represent New York, New Jersey and California.

“The dynamic of that issue is obviously different in the Senate than in the House,” Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.), the GOP conference chair, told reporters about eliminating tax deductions in order to bring in more revenue. “We want to do as many base-broadeners as we can.”

The Senate legislation also has slightly different tax brackets and retains write-offs for student loan interest and adoption costs that the House bill controversially repeals. Both versions of the bill undercut tax subsidies for mortgage interest, but the Senate bill allows homeowners to continue deducting interest payments on mortgages worth up to $1 million, whereas the House bill sets a $500,000 cap. 

Another crucial difference is that while the House bill cuts the corporate tax rate immediately, the Senate version delays the change to 2019, an aide said. Delaying the corporate tax cut is a gimmick that makes the bill look less costly in the 10-year budget window typically used to evaluate the revenue effects of legislation.

The bill’s cost matters because, according to budget rules Republicans set for themselves, the legislation can’t lose more than $1.5 trillion worth of revenue over 10 years. The House bill loses about that much, according to several estimates, but its provisions have been in constant flux. The House bill contains a lot of trade-offs: It loses trillions of dollars in corporate and individual income tax revenue, while replacing some of that revenue by eliminating a swath of deductions that most households use to reduce their tax burden.

A political problem for House Republicans is that because their bill gets rid of all those deductions, it’s difficult for them to say every household will get a tax cut. Their own experts on the Joint Committee on Taxation, as well as outside analysts, have said at least 1-in-5 tax filers will ultimately pay more under the plan.

One way Republicans want to avoid middle-class tax hikes is by expanding the child tax credit. The House bill increases the credit to $1,600 from its current per-child maximum of $1,000. Sens. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) and Mike Lee (R-Utah) have pushed for expanding the credit up to $2,000, but the new Senate legislation only raises it to $1,650. 

The House bill does a huge favor to extremely wealthy heirs by eliminating a tax on estates worth at least $5.49 million. The Senate bill keeps the estate tax, but doubles the amount of wealth that’s exempt. Many House Republicans have indicated they’re willing to keep the tax if it means getting the bill approved, however.

The Senate Finance Committee is scheduled to begin marking up its tax plan next week. House Republicans finished marking up their bill on Thursday and said they would vote next week. 

Despite the growing fear of a Democratic wave in 2018 elections, Senate Republicans said that their crushing state and and local losses in Virginia and New Jersey on Tuesday give them more reason to pass their tax bill.

“I think if you’re going to run for office, you want to be able to point to things you’ve been able to get done,” Thune said. “And I think right now, there’s a general frustration in the country, even though we’ve gotten some things done in our agenda, some of the big ticket items remain unfinished.”


&&&&&

+++++

Virginia GOP Rep. Bob Goodlatte Announces He Is Retiring

2017-11-09

Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, announced Thursday that he will not seek re-election in 2018.

“With my time as Chairman of the Judiciary Committee ending in December 2018, this is a natural stepping-off point and an opportunity to begin a new chapter of my career and spend more time with my family, particularly my granddaughters,” Goodlatte said in a statement.

The Virginia Republican is term-limited as Judiciary chairman. His announcement follows a number of high-profile Democratic wins in Virginia on Tuesday.

Goodlatte represents what is considered a safe Republican district in the rural western part of the state. Republican Ed Gillespie, who lost to Democrat Ralph Northam in Virginia’s gubernatorial race this week, carried the district by 22 points. Donald Trump won it by a similar margin in last year’s presidential election.

Goodlatte is the latest term-limited House chairman who will not be seeking re-election next year. Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Texas), who chairs the House Science Committee, and Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas), who chairs the Financial Services Committee, are also leaving Congress in 2018.

Earlier this week, Reps. Ted Poe (R-Texas) and Frank LoBiondo (R-N.J.) similarly announced their retirements. LoBiondo’s decision creates a major opportunity for Democrats in a battleground Garden State district.




&&&&&

+++++

Democratic Election Sweep May Complicate GOP Push For Tax Reform

2017-11-08

WASHINGTON ― If you’re a vulnerable Republican lawmaker from a high-tax state like New York, New Jersey, or California, Tuesday’s stunning Democratic sweep in key state and local elections may give you some pause.

Passing a tax reform bill that analysts say raises taxes on some middle-class Americans was already a politically risky move, but the task may prove even more difficult given the Democrats’ big wins in Virginia, New Jersey, and Washington state.

Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) was quick to make the connection for Republicans in a Senate floor speech on Wednesday.

“If you think the results [in Tuesday’s elections] were terrible for you, wait till you pass a bill that raises taxes on middle-class families in your district,” he said.

Many Republicans were equally quick to dispute that characterization, insisting they had more reason now to pass their tax bill.

“If anything, this just puts more pressure on us to follow through,” House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) said at a Wednesday event on tax reform hosted by The Washington Examiner. “It simply means we’ve gotta deliver.”

Republican strategist Doug Heye agreed, saying the GOP needs a legislative victory its candidates can tout ahead of the 2018 congressional midterm elections.

“Voters still want to see Washington do something, and Republican primary voters especially want to see Congress move something that is a legislative priority,” he said.

While conceding that “the Democratic sweep, especially down ballot, doesn’t bode well for Republicans,” he argued that “a direct correlation” between Tuesday’s results and the fate of the tax bill “is tenuous at best.”

The legislation House Republicans are marking up this week includes drastic cuts to the corporate tax rate, as well as cuts to small business and individual income taxes. In order to offset the large amount of revenue lost with those cuts, Republicans propose eliminating several popular deductions, including the one for most state and local taxes.

Some GOP lawmakers from high-tax states like New Jersey and California have  balked at eliminating the popular deduction over fears the bill would raise taxes on their middle-class constituents ― and spark a voter backlash against the GOP.

The bill in its current form “clearly raises taxes on some people, including in my state,” Rep. Darrell Issa, rated by analysts as a vulnerable California Republican in next year’s elections, said on Tuesday.

In order to ameliorate those concerns, the measure’s latest draft includes a compromise that allows taxpayers to continue to deduct up to $10,000 in personal property taxes. The provision was welcomed by centrist GOP lawmakers like Rep. Tom MacArthur (N.J.), who told HuffPost on Wednesday that the election result didn’t affect his thinking on the tax bill at all.

Rep. Peter King (R-N.Y.), on the other hand, said lawmakers ought to take Democrats’ gains into consideration.

He questioned “this attitude of, ‘We have to get tax cuts to get the voters with us.’” A tax cut “which is going to raise taxes on your constituents ― it makes no sense,” King told HuffPost.

“I think a lot of them are in silos,” King said of his GOP colleagues. “The echo chamber.”

Senate Republicans, in their version of a tax bill to be unveiled soon, are said to be considering eliminating entirely the state and local tax deduction, including for property taxes.

Some Republicans are expressing concern about the political fallout in the midterms of the GOP proposals on state and local taxes.

“Republicans defending RAISING TAXES on middle-class taxpayers already paying high state/local taxes display an arrogance that will cost us the majority in Congress faster than you can say ‘Speaker [Nancy] Pelosi,’” Ron Nehring, who headed the presidential campaign in California for Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) last year, tweeted on Tuesday, referring to the leader of House Democrats.

Cruz may present problems for GOP leaders on tax reform. On Tuesday, he called raising taxes on middle-class households in high-tax, heavily Democratic states like New York and California “a mistake.” The senator also called for repealing Obamacare’s individual mandate, which assesses penalties on taxpayers who do not purchase health insurance, in order to help pay for the tax bill.

Injecting Obamacare, which Republicans failed to repeal earlier this summer, into the tax debate would open a whole host of other problems in the Senate. Ways and Means Committee Chair Rep. Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the chief tax writer in the House, said it was still up for discussion. But he did not include a provision in the House tax bill to do so.

More broadly, Republicans face a Goldilocks problem on tax reform that also stymied their efforts to repeal Obamacare.

Winning enough GOP House votes for tax reform spurred the compromise on the property tax deduction. In order to win over enough GOP votes in the Senate, however, they must eliminate enough deductions to clear that chamber’s budget restrictions, which only allow for an increase to the deficit by $1.5 trillion over a decade. The Congressional Budget Office estimated on Wednesday the House the House bill would add $1.7 trillion to the deficit over that period.

“They’re in a difficult dynamic,” Schumer told reporters. “To get the bill to pass in the House, you make it difficult to pass in the Senate.”

Matt Fuller and Arthur Delaney contributed reporting. This article has been updated with comments from King and more perspective on obstacles Republicans face to passing a tax reform bill.


&&&&&

+++++

Watch Out, Donald Trump. Here Come The Democrats.

2017-11-07

FAIRFAX, Va. ― The Democratic Party romped to victories across the country Tuesday, gaining key state legislative seats, two governorships and full control of the state governments of New Jersey and Washington, where they’ll have wide power to enact their agenda.

In one sense, the wins should have been expected: President Donald Trump is extremely unpopular, and the party that holds the White House usually does worse in congressional, state and local elections in years when the president isn’t on the ballot. 

And the victories were expected in some cases. In New Jersey, Democrat Phil Murphy, a former Goldman Sachs banker, consistently led in the polls and will now be the next governor. But elsewhere, outcomes were more uncertain.

Many Democratic activists were worried that the party was going to let the Virginia governor’s mansion slip from its grasp. Concern that Lt. Gov. Ralph Northam was failing to excite the base, along with a fear-mongering anti-immigrant campaign run by Republican Ed Gillespie, led to concerns it would be a repeat of the 2016 presidential race.

Northam, however, sailed to victory Tuesday, guaranteeing Democrats a seat at the table when state legislative and congressional districts get redrawn in 2020. The party won the races for lieutenant governor and attorney general, too.

The night was validation for the many activists around the country who joined the resistance after Trump’s win and have been feverishly working at the grassroots to mobilize the party’s base. There’s no doubt that the victories will provide a jolt of energy for what’s coming in the 2018 midterm elections.

“Today’s progressive victories in Virginia make one thing clear: A newly awakened grassroots movement is rising up to reject Trump’s politics of hate and reclaim political power,” said Maria Urbina, the political director of the progressive Indivisible movement, which has more than 180 active groups in Virginia.  

Democrats also saw the wins as a rejection of the type of nationalism championed by Trump and his former aide, Breitbart News Executive Chairman Steve Bannon, who maintained that a win by Gillespie in Virginia would prove that “Trumpism without Trump can show the way forward.”

“Tonight, the message for Democrats and the country is that fear and division and hatred do not work,” Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe (D) said. “They don’t work here in Virginia, and they’re not going to work in Virginia.”

Trump attempted to distance himself from the crushing GOP losses Tuesday night, tweeting from South Korea that Gillespie “worked hard but did not embrace me or what I stand for.”

Almost no one expected Democrats to do as well as they did in the Virginia House of Delegates. Democrats targeted the 17 GOP-held districts where Democratic presidential rival Hillary Clinton defeated Trump. Winning all of the seats would swing control of the chamber, but few thought it was possible. Republicans have controlled the state’s house of delegates for nearly two decades and held a 66-34 majority.

The last time Democrats picked up more than one seat in the body was 2007, when they gained four. Last week, Virginia Democratic National Committeewoman Yasmine Taeb estimated that a pickup of six to eight seats would constitute a “success.”

But by 9:30 p.m., Democrats had already picked up 14 Republican-held seats in the House of Delegates, with eight more in play.

Northern Virginia, a Democratic stronghold, turned only bluer. Voters outside a polling location in Fairfax, which supported Clinton by a two-to-one margin in 2016, cited health care, education and Trump as top issues that drove them to the polls Tuesday.

“It seems like the other guy, Gillespie, he’s being supported by Trump, and [the president] tweeted about him,” Soleyman Ahmed, who voted for Northam, told HuffPost. “Northam seems like he’s a doctor, he’s served in the government, he’s got experience that could help.”

The electoral wave lifted the fortunes of even very left-wing candidates, including Democrat Lee Carter, a member of the Democratic Socialists of America and supporter of single-payer health care. He unseated GOP House Majority Whip Jackson Miller in Northern Virginia’s 50th District. Carter, a former Marine, failed to provide the state Democratic Party with daily updates about his campaign, prompting the party to deny him aid and go silent on his bid. The Washington, D.C., chapter of DSA stepped in to help with canvassing, and on Tuesday Carter won. 

In Virginia’s 13th District, outside Fredericksburg, voters ousted Republican Del. Bob Marshall, the author of the state’s bill to ban transgender people from using the bathrooms of their choice, and replaced him with Danica Roem, a transgender woman who ran on a platform of fixing the area’s transit problems.

Virginia Democratic Del. Charniele Herring said Roem’s victory “sends a message to politicians that the politics of bigotry is over. It’s not acceptable to voters.”

Chris Hurst, a former Roanoke news anchor whose girlfriend was fatally shot by a colleague on-air in 2015, beat an incumbent Republican in the state’s 12th District, which stretches from Blacksburg, the home of Virginia Tech, to the West Virginia border.

“This isn’t a wave. This is a tsunami,” said David Toscano, the Democratic leader in the Virginia House of Delegates. 

The wins in New Jersey, Virginia and Washington, where Democrats won a key Washington state Senate seat — and, with it, control of the only part of the state government they didn’t already run — will have real policy consequences in the short term. Northam will be able to veto Republican legislation in Virginia, and Democratic pickups in the Virginia House of Delegates will give him much more leverage in the legislature. New Jersey, where Murphy ran on promises to legalize marijuana and introduce public banking will be under full Democratic control for the first time in nearly a decade. In Washington, Democratic Gov. Jay Inslee and the Democratic-controlled legislature will have much more freedom to enact their agenda.

The election results will affect lives in other states, too. In Maine, voters approved a ballot measure expanding Medicaid to tens of thousands of people over the objections of Paul LePage, the state’s Republican governor. In New York City, Bill de Blasio — who achieved a longstanding liberal goal of creating a universal pre-kindergarten program — became the first Democratic mayor to win reelection since Ed Koch in 1985. 

The big question for Democrats now will be whether they can translate wins in this year’s elections to victories in next year’s congressional midterm elections. The Virginia electorate in 2017 is not the same territory as the battlegrounds Democrats will face next year — for one thing, Trump is more unpopular in the state than he is in the nation as a whole. And, as FiveThirtyEight recently noted, Virginia’s off-year results “haven’t been so predictive” as a barometer of each party’s strength in the following midterm House races.

But what Democrats hope is that the GOP loss in Virginia ― where Gillespie played up the nativist message popularized by Trump ― will make Republicans rethink their strategy.

“I think the appeal to the bad side of human instinct ― which Donald Trump did when he ran, and now Republicans are adopting ― does not serve America well, but won’t serve them well either,” Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) told HuffPost on Tuesday, before the results came in.  

Next up: A Dec. 12 special election for a U.S. Senate race in deep-red Alabama, where Roy Moore, a controversial-but-Republican judge, is narrowly leading former U.S. attorney Doug Jones, a Democrat, in the polls.

But on Tuesday night, most Democrats were still focused on celebrating their victories, not preparing for the long slog ahead.

The Democrats are like “the field goal kicker who’s missed three kicks in a row,” said Jared Leopold, communications director for the Democratic Governors Association. “Now we’ve made a few, and we’ve got our groove back.”

“Welcome to the bounce-back,” said Paul Kent, an elated union member who attended Northam’s victory party on Tuesday. “People have been waiting for a day like today since Nov. 9. This was the real bellwether. The narrative is we’re coming. There is no apathy.”

&&&&&

+++++

Phil Murphy Cruises To Victory In New Jersey Gubernatorial Race

2017-11-07

Democrat Phil Murphy easily defeated Republican Kim Guadagno in New Jersey’s gubernatorial race on Tuesday, an election that turned the page on the troubled tenure of term-limited Republican Gov. Chris Christie.

Murphy, a multimillionaire former Goldman Sachs executive and former U.S. ambassador to Germany, maintained a comfortable lead in the polls throughout the months-long race. His victory gives Democrats unified control of the state’s government.

Guadagno, the state’s lieutenant governor who spent much of her last seven years in office in Christie’s shadow, suffered partly because of how politically toxic the scandal-plagued incumbent governor had become ― even to members of his own party. A sign of the lack of enthusiasm behind her candidacy, Guadagno’s campaign was even forced to offer supporters money to knock on doors last month.

Guadagno attempted to shake up the race in the final weeks of the race by releasing an ad that accused Murphy of sympathizing with murderous gangs, a tactic similarly undertaken by Republicans against the Democratic nominee in the Virginia gubernatorial race. However, the ad was panned and proved less effective in the Garden State.

Murphy enlisted big names to help animate voters in what had otherwise been a sleepy contest, including musician Jon Bon Jovi, former presidents Barack Obama and Bill Clinton, former Vice President Joe Biden, and Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.). Guadagno did not campaign with President Donald Trump, the leader of her party, who has just a 31 percent approval rating in the state.

The ongoing federal bribery trial of the state’s senior senator, Bob Menendez (D), injected some late drama in the gubernatorial race. The possibility that Menendez, who has denied all federal corruption charges, is convicted and then expelled from the Senate would give the GOP a chance to appoint his replacement. Guadagno could have done so had she won and Menendez been found guilty.


&&&&&

+++++

Senate Committee To Hold Hearing On Bump Stocks, Background Checks

2017-11-07

The Senate Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing on a pair of possible gun reform measures next week following the deadly mass shootings in Sutherland Springs, Texas, and Las Vegas, Nevada.

The hearing, entitled “Firearm Accessory Regulation and Enforcing Federal and State Reporting to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System,” is scheduled to take place on Nov. 14, Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) announced.

After the deadly shooting in Las Vegas, where a gunman killed 58 people and injured hundreds more, many Republicans pledged to ban bump stocks, the devices that make semi-automatic weapons function like machine guns. The shooter was found with a dozen firearms retrofitted with such devices. More than one month after the shooting, however, bump stocks are still legal and are back on the market.

In the aftermath of Sunday’s shooting in Sutherland Springs, the Air Force said that it failed to record the Texas church shooter’s domestic violence conviction in the National Instant Criminal Background Check System, which would have kept him from buying a gun.

Sens. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) and Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.) announced Tuesday they are working on a bipartisan bill aimed at closing that loophole.


&&&&&

+++++

Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross Failed To Disclose Ties To Vladimir Putin

2017-11-05

U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross shares business interests with Russian President Vladimir Putin’s son-in-law, a connection that he failed to disclose earlier this year during his confirmation hearing for his Cabinet post, NBC News reports.

Ross’ link to Putin appears in the Paradise Papers, a leaked trove of millions of financial documents made public on Sunday by a partnership of media organizations and the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists.

Ross, a billionaire industrialist and a close friend of President Donald Trump, continues to hold a stake in a Russian shipping firm controlled by a Russian oligarch, Putin’s son-in-law, and other members of Putin’s inner circle, according to the documents.

Daniel Fried, an assistant secretary of state for European and Eurasian affairs under President George W. Bush, told The Guardian that Ross’ ties to Putin’s “cronies” could undermine U.S. sanctions on Russia.

In January, ahead of his confirmation, Ross agreed to sell some but not all of his global assets that posed a conflict of interest to his future position. He also agreed, as required by law, to recuse himself from matters in which he would have a direct financial interest.

Ross’ spokesman told The Guardian that his stake in the Russian firm would not conflict with his duties as commerce secretary and that Ross “recuses himself from any matters focused on transoceanic shipping vessels.”

Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), who sits on the Senate Commerce Committee, said Ross “misled” him and the committee by failing to disclose links to Russian interests.

“With Wilbur Ross revelations, question must be asked - whose interests come first in this Administration?” Blumenthal asked Sunday on Twitter.

Ross is only the latest high-ranking member of the Trump administration who failed to disclose ties to Russia or Russian officials.

Attorney General Jeff Sessions is being called by Democrats to testify again before the Senate Judiciary Committee to clarify past claims that he was unaware of any communication between members of Trump’s presidential campaign and Russian officials. According to recently unsealed court documents, former Trump campaign foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos spoke multiple times with Russians about setting up a meeting between Putin and then-presidential candidate Trump, and that Sessions was at the gatherings where Papadopoulos discussed the topic.

Papadopoulos has pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about his conversations with Russian officials during the presidential campaign. The plea came as part of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election.



&&&&&

+++++

Ralph Northam Slams ‘Muslim Ban’ At Mosque, Insists He’s Running A Positive Campaign

2017-11-03

STERLING, Va. ― Democrat Ralph Northam visited a mosque in northern Virginia on Friday, urging worshippers there to vote in next week’s gubernatorial election to reject the “hatred and bigotry” coming from Washington, D.C.

“I want to remind all of you that the U.S. is a country of immigrants,” Northam, Virginia’s lieutenant governor, told the men, women and children attending Friday prayers at the All Dulles Area Muslim Society. “We welcome people to this country. And the travel ban, the Muslim ban, is un-American, is unacceptable.”

All Dulles Area Muslim Society is one of the largest mosques in the United States. It regularly hosts political candidates, but it does not endorse them. Ed Gillespie, Northam’s Republican opponent, also stopped by to speak there this year.

This week, two federal judges struck down the latest iteration of President Donald Trump’s travel ban, which restricts people from a handful of mostly Muslim-majority countries from entering the U.S. They said the ban appeared to be a veiled, unconstitutional attempt to bar Muslims based on their religion ― a proposal Trump explicitly called for during last year’s presidential campaign.

In his brief remarks on Friday, Northam, who is a pediatrician, stressed the need to give kids a quality education and affordable health care. He also noted that he had protested against Trump’s first travel ban in February at nearby Dulles International Airport.

Northam’s introductory speaker was far more blunt about the ban.

Robert Maro, an activist who stood alongside the lieutenant governor and several Virginia House delegates, asked worshippers in the prayer room to raise their hands if they opposed the idea of banning Muslims coming into the U.S. A few arms went up, but most of the room stayed seated, listening or engaged in prayer.

“I see people who don’t have their hands raised. Do you not oppose that?” Maro asked.

“Who thinks it’s OK to lie?” he tried again.

Northam was received warmly at the event, shaking hands and greeting mosque leaders who thanked him for coming. It was apparent, however, that some attendees on Friday were showing signs of election fatigue due to the steady stream of candidates who had addressed the Muslim community there in recent weeks.

“They’re getting a little bit jaded, so this is an idea of waking them up,” Maro said later of his attempt to warm up the crowd. 

Even as he was busy denouncing Trump for his immigration-related executive actions, Northam faced questions about his own record on immigration on Friday. Democracy for America, a major national progressive group, denounced Northam’s campaign as “gutless” and “racist” this week after Northam said he would sign a bill banning so-called “sanctuary cities,” or municipalities that limit their cooperation with federal immigration authorities, should any Virginia locality pursue that status in the future. 

The broadside from Democracy for America, which had never supported Northam’s campaign, unleashed an intraparty squabble that threatened his campaign’s momentum just days before Tuesday’s election.

Speaking with HuffPost after the event, Northam insisted that “nothing has changed with my stance on sanctuary cities.”

Northam also continued to distance himself from a controversial ad run by a Latino Democratic group that has since been taken off the air. The ad showed young children of color fleeing a white man in a pickup truck with a Confederate flag and a Gillespie bumper sticker. The Washington Post editorial board, which endorsed Northam, said the ad “had no place” in the race.

“It was their choice to promote that ad. That is not an ad that I would have run,” Northam told HuffPost.

Northam dodged a question, however, over whether he explicitly denounced the ad, maintaining only that he would not have made the decision to put it on air.

“We’re running a positive campaign,” Northam insisted. “[Gillespie] is running a campaign that’s trying to scare people, that’s trying to promote fear mongering, the hatred and bigotry.”


&&&&&

+++++

Sen. Tim Scott Responds To John Kelly: ‘No Compromise To Make’ On Civil War

2017-10-31

WASHINGTON ― Sen. Tim Scott (R-S.C.) seemingly chided White House chief of staff John Kelly on Tuesday after the former Marine Corps general claimed that the Civil War was caused by the inability to compromise.

“We need to stop relitigating and referencing the Civil War as if there was some moral conundrum,” Scott, the sole black Senate Republican, said in a statement. “There was no compromise to make – only a choice between continuing slavery and ending it. We need to move forward together, instead of letting the divisions of the past continue to force us apart.” 

Kelly on Monday said a “lack of ability to compromise led to the Civil War” and called the removal of Confederate monuments a “dangerous” scrubbing of history. The senior Donald Trump aide made the comments during an interview with Fox News’ Laura Ingraham, who asked his thoughts about the removal of two plaques honoring President George Washington and Gen. Robert E. Lee at a church in Alexandria, Virginia. 

“I would tell you that Robert E. Lee was an honorable man,” Kelly said during the interview.

“He was a man that gave up his country to fight for his state, which, 150 years ago, was more important than country,” he added. “It was always loyalty to state first back in those days. Now it’s different today. But the lack of an ability to compromise led to the Civil War. And men and women of good faith on both sides made their stand where their conscience had to make their stand.”

A number of U.S. historians have criticized Kelly’s comments about the Civil War, calling them “strange,” “sad,” and “wrong.” Stephanie McCurry, a history professor at Columbia University, told The Washington Post that Kelly’s comments echoed talking points of a “pro-Confederate view of the Civil War.”

White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders, however, defended her boss on Tuesday, accusing reporters of creating a false narrative.

“Because you don’t like history doesn’t mean that you can erase it and pretend that it didn’t happen,” Sanders said during a daily press briefing. “I think that’s the point that Gen. Kelly was trying to make.”

“All of our leaders have flaws,” Sanders added, citing George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Franklin Roosevelt, and John F. Kennedy. “That doesn’t diminish their contributions to our country.”

Scott has been particularly vocal about the issue of racism in America. After white supremacists rallies in Charlottesville, Virginia, over the summer, Scott met with President Donald Trump in the Oval Office to discuss the president’s controversial response in which he said there was “blame on both sides.”


&&&&&

