+++++

Fox News Sunday: 'Repugnant' That Roy Moore Asked Permission From Parents To Date Underage Girls

2017-11-12

During Fox News Sunday's round table discussion, there wasn't one member who supported Roy Moore's election campaign to the Senate after allegations surfaced that he dated underage girls when he was in his thirties.

"Let's talk about Roy Moore," Wallace said.

Heritage's Michael Needham wanted to re-litigate the primary and launched into an attack on Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell over Mo Brooks' attempts to acquire the vacated Senate seat.

Wallace got him back on track and asked, "Shouldn't Roy Moore stepped on?"

Needham replied, "If these allegations are true, he should step down."

He continued, "The Washington Post article is pretty compelling. When Roy Moore tells Sean Hannity--Hannity did a very hard-hitting interview on Friday--that he "generally" did not date teenagers when he was in his thirties, I think that Roy Moore is going to need to provide people more confidence that this isn't true, because the evidence is pretty overwhelming, and if not, frankly, he will have trouble being seated in the Senate even if he does win the election."

Wallace then recounted a bizarre exchange between Moore and Hannity that I highlighted Friday night.

Wallace said, "[Moore] also said as part of his defense that he never asked girls out without asking permission from their mother, which (laughs at that preposterous remark) is a first, I have to say."

Gillian Turner, a Fox News analyst and former WH national security staffer was disgusted by Moore's comments and Wallace could see it and called on her next.

Turner said, "It's infuriating and that's why I was shaking my head."

Wallace said, "Go ahead."

She continued, "That idea is infuriating, that somehow had he asked the parents if he could go out with a 14-year-old, and they had said yes it would have been perfectly acceptable. I found that idea repugnant."

That is repugnant, and is an admission of guilt by Roy Moore and tantamount to a sex offense against a minor because it's so ludicrous on its face.

He's in his thirties, already has a big job in the DA's office and he's asking out supposedly age-appropriate girls but needs to ask permission from their mother? In what reality or if you like, multiverse, would ever happen?



Please.

More and more information is coming out that backs up the Post story.

 Teresa Jones @Tjonessrq
#roymoore As a Deputy DA in Gadsden when Roy Moore was there, it was common knowledge about Roy’s propensity for teenage girls. I’m appalled that these women are being skewered for the truth.#MorningJoe #FoxNews
7:31 AM - Nov 10, 2017


And as the local Alabama paper points out, Democratic rival Doug Jones also has a story about young girls in his past too...but a much, much easier one to support.

Even if you don't believe the accusations, he's now in his early seventies, married, creepy and about to become Alabama's next U.S. Senator. There was plenty in Moore's record to keep a sane person from voting for him before all this creepy stuff with young girls came out today in the Washington Post.

Truth is, this news won't make one bit of difference with Alabama voters. You're either fer 'im or agin 'im down here. Regardless.

Moore's base is just relieved these accusations involve girls instead of boys.

Then, there's that other guy. Doug Jones. The Democrat candidate for U.S. Senate.

Jones also has a history with 4 young girls: Denise McNair, Carole Robinson, Addie Mae Collins and Cynthia Wesley. He convicted the remaining Ku Klux Klan members who killed them.

Props to Peter A. Shulman:

View image on TwitterView image on Twitter
 Peter A. Shulman 📚 @pashulman
Doug Jones and Roy Moore both have stories from their pasts about four young girls. They are very different kinds of stories.
12:54 PM - Nov 9, 2017

&&&&&

+++++

Chairman Brady: House Will Not Accept Senate 'Elimination Of State And Local Tax Deductions'

2017-11-12

After Fox News Sunday host Chris Wallace discussed the major differences between the House and Senate tax reform bills, House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) said the House would never pass Senate proposals to eliminate the deduction for all state and local taxes, even property taxes.

Wallace was shocked at his candor and said, "Good, thank you." And that ended that part of their discussion.

There are major differences between the two tax reform plans which, no matter how Republicans slice it, is still a major tax cut for the top tier earners in America.

Wallace asked, "Chairman, you've got more than two dozen Republican congressmen from high tax states. Can you guarantee them--because they are threatening to vote against an elimination of all the state and local tax deductions--can you guarantee them that the final bill they vote on will not include the total elimination in the Senate plan?

Brady: "I can."

Brady then gave a mostly boilerplate response about people keeping more of what they earn and he listed some portions of his bill.

Wallace asked, "How can you guarantee House members from blue states that the Senate plan, the total elimination [of these deductions], will not be in the final bill?"

Brady didn't answer directly. "I'm convinced that this is where we will end up because this is important ..."

Wallace tried another track. "Are you saying then that the House will not accept a total elimination, that that just won't fly even if the Senate passes it?"

Chairman Brady: "That's what I'm saying."

Wallace chuckled and said, "Good, thank you."

Later in their discussion, Brady used the Joint Committee on Taxation analysis to defend the House tax plan, saying the "study confirmed, every income bracket sees a tax cut," but as the JCT actually reports, "The Tax Cuts in the House Bill Are Overwhelmingly Skewed to the Top"

About 45 percent of cost of the bill’s tax cuts would go to households with incomes above $500,000 (fewer than 1 percent of filers). About 38 percent of the bill’s cost would go to tax cuts for households with incomes over $1 million (about 3 out of every 1,000 filers).[2]


So again, Republicans are throwing a very skeevy bone to the poors in their plans to some portions of the middle class somewhere down the line, while some will see tax increases, which in the end is their justifications to give massive tax cuts to the rich.

Got it.

&&&&&

+++++

Fox And Friends Flogs Trump's 'Tough Talk' On Trade As Top Story

2017-11-11

Fox and Friends took a page out of Hannity's playbook and opened their show by ignoring the Roy Moore sex allegations and instead touted Trump's "tough talk" speech on trade at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) CEO Summit in Danang, Vietnam.

When a show has to lead the day by calling Trump the "salesman-in-chief" when he hasn't sold anything at all, you know times are tough for them.

With the entire political world, including Republicans buzzing about the Moore allegations, Fox and Friends opened their show with co-host Steve Doocy: "Let's talk a little bit about where our "salesman-in-chief" is. He has arrived in Vietnam."

They quickly cut to some of Trump'and played almost two whole minutes of his speech they described as" fiery words."

After stumping for Trump's tough words they then switched to people criticizing Trump - cue Laura Ingraham video.

Guess who they discussed next? Nope, it's not Roy Moore.

C'mon, you can do it.

Right. Investigate Hillary for campaign finance corruption - cue a Tucker Carlson video.

They just can't quit her.

Finally, they put on Griff Jenkins to give the Roy Moore cliff notes and then they moved on.

Is it a surprise for you to learn that F&F covered the Roy Moore story for four entire minutes during their three hour broadcast?

Hannity covered the stunning Virginia election sweep by the Democrats for a mere six seconds Tuesday night.

Lessons learned.

&&&&&

+++++

Roy Moore Tells Hannity He Didn't 'Generally' Date Teens

2017-11-10

In a cringe-worthy interview, Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore, when asked by Sean Hannity if he dated young girls said, "not generally, no."

The embattled senatorial candidate joined Sean Hannity on his radio show to address the damning Washington Post report about his teenage proclivities.

In another weird statement, he said he had no memory of these past events "or dating any girl without the permission of her mother.”

Huh?

He's in his thirties, already has a big job in the DA's office and he's asking out supposedly age-appropriate girls but needs to ask permission from their mother?

This wasn't 1829 or in a faraway Game of Thrones land called Westeros.

It was 1979, for godssake.

Hannity kept asking him about dating teens.

When asked about 14-year-old Corfman he replied, "I don’t know Ms. Corfman from anybody. The allegations of sexual misconduct with her are completely false.”

He said it was forty years ago after all and he dated a lot of ladies.

His memory was a little better on Gloria Thacker Deason and Debbie Wesson Gibson, but not much.

He actually remembered more about the parents than the girls.

On Gibson, he said, “I knew her as a friend,” who has said Moore asked her on a date when she was 17, after speaking at her high school. “If we did go out on dates, then we did, but I do not remember that,” Moore said.

If we did, we did, but I don't, you know?

He also denied trying to liquor up Gloria Thacker Deason because he lived in a dry county and you know, that's the only place to get booze. Right? But he did remember her as "a good girl" and again remembered the parents.

Again Hannity pressed him, "You do remember these girls, would it be unusual for you as a thirty-two-year-old guy to have dated a woman as young as seventeen..."

"Not generally, no. If I did, I'm not going to dispute anything but I don't remember anything like that."



So occasionally he dated teens. Good to know.

Was this interview designed to help? It only caused more problems for Roy Moore.

&&&&&

+++++

Fox News Panelists Incredulous GOP Now 'Fighting Amongst Itself About Pedophilia'

2017-11-10

As Fox News' Outnumbered panel members were discussing the Roy Moore sexual allegations, Gillian Turner said the big picture for the Republican party is bad news because they are fighting about "pedophilia."

Wow, just wow. Attaching pedophiles to a political party is as damning as it gets.

After discussing the possible fate of the Alabama Senate seat after allegations that Moore likes underage girls and if Luther Strange should be a write-in candidate, the ladies on the panel got very serious about what was happening within the GOP.

Dagen McDowell asked how this would play out. Gillian Turner said it would guarantee a win for the Dems if he imitated Lisa Murkowski.

Turner continued, "Unfortunately for the Republican Party, whether Judge Moore is guilty or innocent, this is bad news and I think bodes poorly."

"We just spent the previous block talking about tax reform. This bodes poorly for Republican initiatives because the party is now fighting amongst itself about pedophilia, right? This is not a party that is in a state to govern effectively, to lead the nation and legislate never mind take a stand and tackling generational issues like tax reform."

Harris Faulkner was horrified and said, "They are dripping and searing those words. Fighting about pedophilia."

No one on set denied these words.

Harris then opined that what was just as damaging was all these politicos retiring from the GOP.

She said, "You've seen more than two dozen House Republicans confirm that they will not be returning for reelection in 2018 above -- "

Gillian, "And many of them Committee leaders."

Harris replied, "Good point, Gillian. And that is far above the average of House retirement per election cycles. So you've got an onslaught and in the middle of it now a scandal that when I hear you describe it no matter how it shakes out in the end with the facts, yuck!"

Yuck, indeed.

Update (Karoli): This seems to sum it all up succinctly:

 Dave Zirin ✔@EdgeofSports
Democrats are divided on single payer healthcare. Republicans are divided on pedophilia. #RoyMooreChildMolester
8:17 AM - Nov 10, 2017

&&&&&

+++++

Kate Bolduan's Perfect Response To Roy Moore Apologist: 'It's Her Face, Her Voice, Her Story!'

2017-11-10

CNN's Kate Bolduan had the perfect response to Republicans that are trying to smear the Washington Post over their blockbuster report on Roy Moore's sexual proclivities towards underage girls.

The CNN host was interviewing Rep. Jodey Arrington (R-TX) about the Moore allegations and as he tried to deflect the impact of it away from the Moore and onto the Washington Post, he got more than he bargained from Kate Bolduan.

Kate said, "There's not going to be a case here. I'm not asking you if he's guilty or innocent. I'm asking if he should be a United States Senator?"

He refused to respond to her question and instead said the only way to find out the truth was with a "jury of their peers and have due process."

Kate replied, "There's not going to be a case. There's a statute of limitations on this. Do you think voters should vote for him?"

He replied, "It's going to be part of the consideration for his voters, but the fact is, he's saying -- he's denying those allegations and you got The Washington Post which is not exactly the pillar of unbiased journalism saying another thing, so I'm going to let this play out for the people -- "

Bolduan replied, "Sir, with all due respect and I'm not speaking here for The Washington Post, it's not the Washington Post saying this."

"This is a woman on the record, her face, her voice, her name, her family, saying what happened to her when she was 14 years old and 30 people also corroborating these stories as well. So it's not the Washington Post versus Roy Moore. It is a woman telling her story that she says is her truth versus Roy Moore," she said.

Leigh Corfman and Wendy Miller were 14 years old when they say Moore engaged in unseemly practices. Fourteen years old.

And they did not remain anonymous for the article.

Kate followed up again, "Do you think he should be a United States Senator?

Arrington finally answered and said, "I think that's disconcerting and if it's true I think Roy Moore is unfit to be running for the United States Senate."


Well done, Kate, but he still didn't let go of that "if it's true" disclaimer, did he?

&&&&&

+++++

Fox News' Greg Jarrett: Roy Moore Story Suspicious Because It Came From WaPo

2017-11-10

Fox News' Gregg Jarrett believes Moore is unfit to be a Senator because of his prior actions in politics, but questions the credibility of the "sex allegations" because it came from the Washington Post.

During a broadcast of Fox News' Hannity on Thursday night, the Roy Moore deplorable apology team was out in full force.

About 15 minutes in, Gregg Jarrett told Hannity he thought Roy Moore should be disqualified to run for the Senate seat because of "defying federal judicial decisions on constitutional matters which he is not allowed to do under the supremacy clause..."

However, about those pesky sex allegations.

"Having said that, " Greg said.

"I am suspicious of this because of the source, The Washington Post, which has a dog in this fight having endorsed his opponent. The timing of it on the eve of an election. And finally, he was a huge and has been a huge public figure in Alabama, the best known son of Alabama in many ways, and yet none of this came to surface in almost four decades. And so that gives me reason to question the credibility of these people, " Jarrett said.

The Washington Post's record reporting on the Trump administration has been pretty stellar so far -- no matter what Trump, Kellyanne Conway or Sarah Huckabee Sanders say -- and the Moore story is verified by multiple witnesses.

These are detailed accounts of Moore's actions by women who didn't know each other. And they did not remain anonymous, either.

However, it is so easy for the right-wing media to tar a story because of the messenger. But WaPo is not a Breitbart/InfoWars propaganda site or a Sean Hannity state-sponsored Trump TV.

And for a man like Moore, who's acted like an unhinged religious zealot for his own self-interests and has shown he does not respect the rule of law - doesn't this sound any alarm bells for you, Greg?



&&&&&

+++++

Alex Jones: Texas Gunman Was Under 'Mind Control' By Deep State To Carry Out Massacre

2017-11-10

Roger Stone's buddy is at it again.

Alex Jones, who seems to be a product of the CIA's Project MK Ultra himself, went on a rant claiming the massacre of twenty six people, many of them children, that Devin Patrick Kelly systematically shot was all coordinated just to embarrass Trump.

Here are some of the highlights.

"And the deep state wants to embarrass Trump with more terror attacks and it’s all connected to the Antifa..." Jones claimed.

“You’re our little secret agent now of the deep state. You’re not going to go to jail. Don’t kill your commanding officers. We have a job for you.”

"And absolutely there it is. Mind control. If they can’t hype up a revolution on November 4th, they’ll activate their sleeper cells."

"And let me tell you something. They got hardcore drugs, they got programming, they got it all..."

"That guy tried to kill his high command and they said, “Put this guy into a black project. Scramble his brain. This guy’s a perfect candidate as a wind-up toy.” “You want to be a killer, son? You’re going to get to be a killer now. You’re in the program whether you like it or not.”

Is it any wonder why Donald Trump loves this guy.

&&&&&

+++++

Gen. Kelly Pressured Acting DHS To Kick Out Thousands Of Honduran Immigrants

2017-11-09

Acting Secretary of Homeland Security Elaine Duke is furious with the White House chief of staff, John Kelly, who called her on Monday and demanded she expel thousands of Honduran immigrants that have residency permits due to natural disasters.

Gen. Kelly is supposed to be the adult in the room, but as we've seen since he became Trump's COS, he's nothing but.

The Washington Post is reporting:

On Monday, as the Department of Homeland Security prepared to extend the residency permits of tens of thousands of Honduran immigrants living in the United States, White House Chief of Staff John F. Kelly called Acting Secretary Elaine Duke to pressure her to expel them, according to current and former administration officials.

Duke refused to reverse her decision and was angered by what she felt was a politically driven intrusion by Kelly and Tom Bossert, the White House homeland security adviser, who also called her about the matter, according to officials with knowledge of Monday’s events, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations.

Kelly is claiming he's upset with Duke's "lack of decisiveness" but that doesn't hold water.

As Josh Marshal writes:

The details are important. There are a substantial number of immigrants in the US from a handful of Caribbean basin nations where there were either natural disasters or human rights crises which led to the decision to allow immigrants from those countries to stay in the US under Temporary Protected Status. The Trump administration’s policy goal is to change those country designations and expel those people.

Elaine Duke is basically in the process of doing just that. She’s already done it with Nicaraguans. She’s just not going fast enough apparently.

Helping the peoples of other nations that have faced terrible natural and human rights crisis's is something a narcissistic personality would never be interested in.

Officials are saying that Kelly wants this to happen fast so it doesn't undermine Kirstjen M. Nielsen's nomination to be head of the DHS.

“He was persistent, telling her he didn’t want to kick the can down the road, and that it could hurt [Nielsen’s] nomination,” said one administration official. Duke held her ground, the official said.



“She was angry. To get a call like that from Asia, after she’d already made the decision, was a slap in the face.”

By the way, her confirmation hearing was a breeze.

And next year many others needing help are in their cross-hairs.

Another 50,000 Haitians and 200,000 Salvadorans were nervously awaiting the decision, as their residency permits will expire early next year. Trump administration officials have repeatedly cited the TPS program as an example of what they say is U.S. immigration policy gone awry, because a program designed to be temporary should not be used to grant long-term residency in the United States.


&&&&&

+++++

'I Don't Blame China': Trump Flip-Flops On China's 'Rape' Of The U.S. Economy

2017-11-09

During a joint press conference with Chinese leader Xi Jinpin in Beijing, Trump said " I don't blame China" for using unfair trade practices against the U.S.

Donald Trump spent his entire campaign in 2016 and presidency attacking China for unfair trade practices, "raping" our economy and being a "currency manipulator," but suddenly, while standing in front of China's leader he wilted.

(Transcript via Whitehouse.gov.)

Trump said, "As we all know, America has a huge annual trade deficit with China -- a number beyond anything what anybody would understand."

Trump seems sort of worried about forced technology transfer, and the theft of intellectual property."

He continued, "Both the United States and China will have a more prosperous future if we can achieve a level economic playing field. Right now, unfortunately, it is a very one-sided and unfair one. But -- but I don't blame China. (Applause.) After all, who can blame a country for being able to take advantage of another country for the benefit of its citizens? I give China great credit. (Applause.)

Trump is congratulating a foreign power for ripping off the United States of America.

And as usual, he said, "I do blame past administrations for allowing this out-of-control trade deficit to take place and to grow. We have to fix this because it just doesn't work for our great American companies, and it doesn't work for our great American workers. It is just not sustainable. I look forward to working toward that goal and to pursuing fair and lasting engagement."

And then Trump broke presidential tradition:

President Donald Trump broke with tradition during his Asia trip on Thursday as he refused to take reporter questions during or after his meetings with Chinese President Xi Jinping. The decision makes him the first president since George H.W. Bush to not take questions during a visit to China in more than two decades.

I'm sure President Xi will roll over now that Trump has kissed his ring and bowed before him.

&&&&&

