+++++

Collins: “Congenital optimist” sticks with Senate

2017-10-13

It might have taken a congenital optimist to sit through twenty minutes of Susan Collins’ speech to a Chamber of Commerce breakfast this morning to get to the cliffhanger. Would Collins leave her safe perch the Senate to run for governor in Maine? No, Collins declared, and expressed her hope and belief that Congress would “be more productive” in the future with her keeping her seat:
Maine Republican who stood up to Trump to stay in Senate
Maine Sen. Susan Collins announced Friday morning that she will not run for governor and will instead remain in the Senate.
“I am a congenital optimist, and I continue to believe that Congress can — and will — be more productive,” Collins said at a Chamber of Commerce breakfast in Rockport.
The likelihood of Collins leaving was always low, but at least this kind of political cliffhanger offers a soothing sense of normalcy. These days, political cliffhangers tend toward whether we’ll start exchanging nuclear lobs with North Korea or which city gets set on fire for what cause. Collins has put too much time into the Senate to walk away for a fresh start on another political office, although Collins was smart enough to put that into a benefit for voters rather than herself:
“When I was sworn in, I was 99th in seniority….I’m now 15th,” Collins said. “My seniority and my persistent advocacy have allowed me to secure funding for important programs.”
In other words, she brings home the pork. That’s been the standard argument for re-election since the first member of Congress figured out that he could write checks to himself on the taxpayers’ account.
As for Congress getting more productive, that largely depends on whether people like Collins are willing to make tough votes and work as a team. It seems like an ironic claim to make after Collins repeatedly torpedoed Republican efforts to roll back ObamaCare this year, which is why Collins spoke for 20 minutes on health care policy before getting to the point on her political future. Neither Roll Call nor The Hill found those remarks memorable enough to report, but Collins and Lisa Murkowski openly bragged in August about killing the first attempt at ObamaCare repeal in order to protect Planned Parenthood’s federal funding. They put federal subsidies for an abortion mill ahead of the voters who elected Republicans on the basis of promises to repeal ObamaCare, and ahead of being “productive.”
Collins isn’t the solution to the problem she highlights. She’s part of it.
&&&&&

+++++

FCC Chair: No, We Don’t Pull Licenses Over Content Complaints

2017-10-17

Better late than never. Almost a week after Donald Trump suggested that the FCC take action against NBC for broadcasting “fake news,” FCC chair Ajit Pai told an AT&T forum that fake news falls outside its mandate. Besides, Pai said, current law doesn’t grant the FCC authority to revoke licenses over political content … and he’s not in favor of it anyway:
The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) doesn’t have the authority to revoke a broadcast network’s license based on content, Chairman Ajit Pai said Tuesday in response to President Trump’s call on it to challenge NBC’s FCC licenses.
“I believe in the first amendment. The FCC, under my leadership, will stand for the first amendment,” Pai said in response to a question about calls from Trump to revoke the licenses of broadcasters who, according to the president, broadcast “fake news.”
“Under the law, the FCC does not have the authority does not have the power to revoke license of a broadcast station based on content of a program,” Pai, who was appointed by Trump as FCC chairman, said at an AT&T policy forum event.
No kidding. As I noted last week, networks don’t have licenses for their content, and many (if not most) of their stations are owned by others. Reuters also explains that today:
Comcast Corp, which owns NBC Universal, also owns 11 broadcast stations, including outlets in New York, Washington, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Boston, Dallas and Chicago.
When reviewing licenses the FCC must determine if a renewal is in the public interest. Courts have held that a station exercising its First Amendment rights is not adequate grounds to challenge a license.
Networks are essentially content providers, and the only license one needs for that can be found in the First Amendment.
The only content restrictions still extant that could land broadcasters in hot water with the FCC relate to obscenities and adult material. Those restrictions cost CBS a minor fortune after the Super Bowl in 2004, when Justin Timberlake ripped Janet Jackson’s bustier open and exposed her left breast on national television — but even that fine was on a station-by-station basis, and on an objective violation of restrictions that have nothing to do with political points of view.
Why did it take Pai so long to address the issue? Other FCC commissioners spoke out immediately about the inappropriate demand, but Pai probably felt the need to tread carefully. He’s a Trump appointee to the chairmanship, and would not have rushed to publicly contradict his ally. Nevertheless, it’s important for the FCC to clearly state the limits of its authority, especially since Pai has been a leading voice in ensuring that the FCC sticks to those limits. Even when our allies suggest government control of speech — or perhaps especially when — we must stand up to defend the First Amendment and keep the authoritarian impulse in check.
&&&&&





