+++++

UPDATE: Rand Paul’s Injuries Are A Bit More Serious Than We Thought

2017-11-05

There have been a lot of rumors about just what happened when Kentucky Senator Rand Paul was attacked at his home in Bowling Green, Kentucky on Friday.

What we do know is that it was a blindside attack, perpetrated by a 59 year old, wealthy, retired doctor, by the name of Rene Boucher.

Boucher, a registered Democrat, is a neighbor of Paul’s.

Now, I’ve heard several scenarios. One has Boucher in Paul’s home when the attack occurred. The other posits that the senator was attacked from behind, while mowing his lawn.

Whichever scenario proves true, Boucher was arrested by the Kentucky State Police and charged with Fourth Degree Assault, causing minor injury.

The “minor injuries” included cuts to the face and injured ribs.

Senator Paul tweeted out his thanks on Sunday for the support he’s received since the news broke.

About those “minor injuries,” however…

According to the Associated Press, they sound a bit more than minor, which puts the nature of the attack in question.

A spokesman for the senator said that he’s actually suffering from 5 broken ribs.

Doug Stafford said it is unclear when Paul will return to work since he is in considerable pain and has difficulty getting around, including flying. Stafford said Sunday that the broken ribs include three displaced fractures, which can lead to life-threatening injuries. The severe pain can last for weeks or months.
Boucher was released on Saturday. They’re not speaking of motive, but if it turns out this was a politically motivated attack, the penalties for the assault could be much stiffer.


&&&&&

+++++

Trump Bodyguard Is Called For Questioning By House Intelligence Committee

2017-11-04

So who would know Donald Trump’s movements and involvements best?

Probably his bodyguard of the last two decades, or at least that’s what the House Intelligence Committee believes.

The committee will be calling Trump’s former bodyguard to question him about a trip Trump took to Moscow in 2013, as well as what he knows about the firing of former FBI Director James Comey.

Keith Schiller has been summoned to appear before the House panel on Tuesday, where lawmakers will press him on Trump’s 2013 trip, which is detailed in the infamous, unverified dossier compiled by former MI6 agent Christopher Steele.

The dossier, intended as 2016 campaign opposition research, was initiated by Republicans but eventually taken over by Democrats.
The dossier contained a lot of information that could be considered troubling. Some of it, such as reports of meetings between Trump representatives and Russian officials has been verified. Other portions, like the pee-pee tapes, have not.

The House Intel Committee must feel Schiller, who left Trump’s employ in September, has something of value to share.

It was Schiller who delivered the letter to Comey, informing him that he was out.

It was also Schiller who informed a longtime advance logistics aide and former director of White House advance George Gigicos, that he would never manage another Trump rally, after an August Trump rally in Phoenix. The venue was less than full, and Trump blamed Gigicos.

“The White House is delighted that Mr. Schiller will have an opportunity to shed some light on these scandalous allegations, and we are sure that his testimony will be of great interest to all fair-minded people,” White House lawyer Ty Cobb said in a statement to the Post.

The dossier claims that Kremlin officials have “kompromat,” which means compromising material, against the president.
Schiller left the White House in September, reportedly to take a better paying job. He took a massive pay cut to work with the Trump White House (reportedly from $294,000 annually to $165,000).

&&&&&

+++++

The GOP’s New Tax Bill Holds A Big Change For Churches

2017-11-02

With the rollout of the New GOP tax reform bill today, along with it comes the hidden nuggets of disappointment.

In particular is an issue that I’ve talked about before, and I’m no less convinced that it’s a good idea today than I have been.

That’s because it’s not a good idea. It’s a horrible idea.

Near the end of the bill is a rollback of the Johnson Amendment, which prevents churches from endorsing political candidates.

According to Trump, stumping for men and a fleshly world system on Sundays is an act of worship.

President Trump vowed to repeal the amendment during the campaign, saying it would “give our churches their voice back.”

Shortly after taking office, Trump said he would “totally destroy” the amendment, which allows the IRS to revoke a church’s tax exempt status if it’s deemed to be participating in a political campaign.
Many on the religious right are all for it, wrongly considering it a violation of their First Amendment rights.

The facts are, there are no restrictions on religious speech, within the walls of the church. The First Amendment assures that, and nothing has taken that away from pastors, ministers, or priests.

I also don’t believe the Johnson Amendment should have ever been necessary. It has turned into the rope used by both sides of the political aisle to play tug-of-war with the witness of the American church.

Back in August, 4,000 religious leaders wrote a letter opposing efforts by the administration to end the Johnson Amendment.

They wrote, saying of the measure, that it:

“would harm houses of worship, which are not identified or divided by partisan lines.”
And if politicians, who have shown no conscience, when it comes to pandering to Christians for votes, are allowed to further pollute the pulpits, with nothing holding them back, what happens to the witness of the church? How deep does the divide run, when the church is no longer a refuge from the world and its devices?

Christians understand that we are simply passing through this world. There has never been a perfect, manmade system. We work for an eternal reward, and a system that has never failed, nor will it.

Christians understand that, but the American church has lost its way, and made it possible for the world to invade what is supposed to be a sacred place, until the dividing lines between politics and faith are irreparably blurred.


&&&&&

+++++

Papadopoulos Emails Claim Approval For Foreign Meetings From The Top Of Trump Campaign

2017-10-31

The hits just keep on coming out of former Trump foreign policy adviser’s testimony.

In an email, Papadopoulos claimed that it was top members of Trump’s campaign team that agreed to a pre-election meeting with representatives of Russian President Vladimir Putin.

According to a Bloomberg report, the email was disclosed in an FBI affidavit, supporting criminal charges against Papadopoulos. It is not included in the court documents that detail his guilty plea and cooperation with Robert Mueller’s team.

 The message, if true, would bolster claims that Trump’s campaign attempted to collude with Russian interests. But it’s unclear whether Papadopoulos, who pleaded guilty to lying to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, was merely boasting when he sent the July 14, 2016, email to a Kremlin-linked contact. There’s also no indication such a meeting ever occurred.
That part is important. If they’re truly considering a collusion charge, this looks like a solid foundation, but not if they can’t prove it.

Writing to the Russian contact a week before the Republican National Convention, Papadopoulos proposed a meeting for August or September in the U.K. that would include “my national chairman and maybe one other foreign policy adviser” and members of Putin’s office and Russia’s foreign ministry.

“It has been approved by our side,” Papadopoulos wrote.
At the time of the email, Paul Manafort was the campaign chairman. It was reported earlier that Sam Clovis, Trump’s current pick to lead the USDA, was Papadopoulos’ campaign supervisor, at that time, and that he’d been encouraging of his efforts to reach out to Russian officials.

Manafort’s attorney has stressed that he advised against any such meetings.

Papadopoulos developed three separate contacts that he hoped would help dig up dirt on Hillary Clinton, and he kept people within the campaign in the loop.

The communications, by Skype, Facebook, text and email, show the electronic trail the government is following to verify how the campaign handled Russian contacts.

One of those people, identified in court documents as Foreign Contact 2, is Ivan Timofeev, Russian foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said Tuesday. He works for the Moscow-based Russian International Affairs Council, a Kremlin-linked research group, and isn’t a foreign ministry employee, despite Papadopoulos’s assertion, she said.
Timofeev has so far refused to speak with anyone about the contacts he had with Papadopoulos, except to say he felt Papadopoulos was an “enthusiast, with little experience.”

We can also read that to mean: ripe for the picking.


&&&&&

+++++

BREAKING: Federal Court Blocks Trump’s Directive On Transgendered Service Members

2017-10-30

As the case regarding President Trump’s ban on transgendered persons serving in the military moves through court, a federal court has just blocked the ban, pending that decision.

A judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia ruled Monday that Trump’s directive changing the transgender policy back to what it was before June 2016 and banning new transgender recruits from enlisting cannot be enforced while the case is being reviewed in court.

However, the judge denied the plaintiff’s motion to block the ban on funds for gender reassignment surgery.
In other words, the case has to be heard and decided on before people suffering from a grave mental illness – gender dysphoria – can be blocked from enlisting or serving in the military.

The only bright spot in this is that at least taxpayers won’t have to foot the bill to pay for these people to indulge in their dangerous and tragic delusions.

&&&&&

+++++

Puerto Rico’s Governor Wants The Whitefish Energy Contract CANCELLED

2017-10-29

It was a really fishy contract, to be honest.

And I’m not just talking about the company name.

The mounting scrutiny over Whitefish Energy and the circumstances surrounding this small, 2-year old Montana company, as to how they scored a $300 million contract to rebuild Puerto Rico’s electrical infrastructure, has gotten to be too much to just ignore.

The governor of the island is now asking that the contract be cancelled.

Gov. Ricardo Rosselló on Sunday asked the Governing Board of the Electric Power Authority to cancel the contract, according to the governor’s official Twitter account.

“There cannot be any distraction that alters the commitment of raising the electrical system as soon as possible,” Rosselló said of the contract, which came under scrutiny last week.

The island will begin coordinating with Florida and New York to reinforce brigades, Rosselló said.
Puerto Rico was hit hard by Hurricane Maria, and an aged infrastructure did not hold up well. As of last week, there were still 80 percent of the island without power.

So as complicated as the issue is, it struck many as unusual that a 2-year old company, with only 2 full-time employees, all the way in Montana, would score such a lucrative deal.

Some pointed out that the company was from the hometown of Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, which further raised eyebrows.

Zinke claims he knows nothing about it.

Then, as if the absurdity hadn’t already hit peak levels, the details of the contract were revealed.

Among those details, the government is barred from asking questions, auditing or reviewing the costs involved, where the money is going, profits related to the work being done, or even to question the length of time taken to complete the work.

Who made that crap deal, anyway?

Rosselló also asked for “a detailed and thorough investigation” into the recruitment process for emergency services, which led to the Whitefish contract, and for the installation of a trustee in the area of procurement and contracts.
Yeah, that would just be for starters.

Whether they can back out of this contract now, or not, remains to be seen. Last week, San Juan’s mayor made a similar call, asking that the contract be voided.

In response, Whitefish tweeted back at her, suggesting that they would stop working, if she wanted.

They later deleted that tweet and apologized.

&&&&&

+++++

Disagreement Over How Best To Use Christian Voters Drives GOP Faith Ambassador To Resign

2017-10-28

The GOP’s national director of evangelical outreach is bailing his post, and citing mistreatment, as well as a “tone deaf attitude” from the party, in regards to Christian voters.

Chad Connelly was handpicked by Reince Priebus, and has served for the last four years as director. In an email that was circulated on Thursday, he claimed religious outreach had not been made a priority.

“The treatment I received from the new political department has been disrespectful, antagonistic and unacceptable,” Connelly wrote in an email that was obtained by The Associated Press. He added, “GOP Faith in general and me in particular, just don’t have the priority I anticipated.”
Maybe because the whole play for the Christian base is just that – a play, not a priority. Once they’ve been led to the altar of Baal, no need to keep up the game.

The RNC, however, is blowing off Connelly’s concerns and saying his departure was more a case of his shoddy performance of his duties.

“Chad failed to meet simple metrics, expectations, and responsibilities crucial to his duties at the RNC. Because of the importance of faith engagement to the RNC, it was time to move in a new direction in the department in order to expand our efforts,” said RNC political director Juston Johnson.
We can see how important it is by the embrace of an unrepentant, profane, abusive con artist and strip club owner.

At this point, I’m of the belief that the only reason to have a director of evangelical outreach in the party is to further explore how to con Christians (or those that self-identify as Christians) into shelving any actual principles and just trusting party loyalty to serve in the place of actual obedience to the Word of God.

A frustrated Connelly highlighted the importance of the nation’s faith community in the email that criticized several RNC officials by name.

“Pastors and faith leaders and people sitting in pews are THE key element in winning elections. An increase in church engagement of only a few percentage points is often the difference in victory and defeat,” Connelly wrote. “We have learned and re-learned those lessons and unfortunately, it appears that your political department would want us to learn it again.”

He wrote that he “truly was stunned at the treatment I received but mostly at the tone deaf attitude toward this voting segment” that the head of the RNC’s political department demonstrated.
Pay attention to the language. It’s not even subtle.

It’s about harnessing those Christian votes to win election. It’s not about promoting godly principles. It’s not about Christians. It’s about Christian votes. Because their motives are not in line with supporting what matters in the lives and faith of Christians, they can’t seem to get on the same page.

“I’ve lived, sir, a long time, and the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth: That God governs in the affairs of men. If a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without His notice, is it probable that an empire can rise without His aid? We’ve been assured in the sacred writings that unless the Lord builds the house, they labor in vain who build it. I firmly believe this, and I also believe that without His concurring aid, we shall succeed in this political building no better than the builders of Babel.” – Benjamin Franklin

Mr. Franklin was right. Unless the Lord builds the house, the builders labor in vain. The RNC, however, seem to have misconstrued this to mean they should use Christians as the stones to stack up, and Christians are letting them.


&&&&&

+++++

Author And Trump Loyalist Suggests She Was Asked To Primary Ted Cruz

2017-10-12

Former White House Chief of Staff Steve Bannon is said to be targeting every incumbent Republican running for reelection, except Texas Senator Ted Cruz.

That’s ok. Reliable Trump bootlick, Laura Ingraham covers that in her new book.

The book, called Billionaire at the Barricades, a tome of slavish worship to her orange overlord, goes into the happenings of the 2016 RNC convention, and takes a pointed jab at Cruz.

I guess some toadies will not forgive or forget.

In the book, Ingraham tells of being asked to primary Ted Cruz, after the senator refused to endorse Trump, outright.

“People were so torched by Cruz’s failure to endorse [President] Trump that talk of primarying him ignited almost the moment he walked off the stage,” Ingraham wrote in Billionaire at the Barricades, which was released Tuesday. “In fact, a tanned, good-old-boy type in his late 40s approached me and asked me if I’d consider moving to Texas to run against him.”
So what was Cruz’s crime?

To refresh your memories: He said voters should vote their conscience.

INCONCEIVABLE!!

If you want to see Trump supporters hiss and melt like the wicked witch in “The Wizard of Oz,” just mention things like “conscience,” or “principles” to them.

“The arena reverberated with boos and chants of ‘Endorse Trump!'” Ingraham continued. “I have never heard a crowd jeer even after a speaker is finished speaking.”
And you reveled in it, I’m sure, having already sold your soul, at that point.

Those of us who knew people attending the convention can tell you the entire event was a charade, as delegates for Cruz were threatened, railroaded, and prevented from having their say on the convention floor.

It was the kind of shoddy, shady, despotic behavior that served as an omen of things to come with a Trump presidency.

Ingraham goes on to write of how she witnessed the deep-pocketed Republican donor, Sheldon Adelson request that security not allow Cruz into his convention suite.

Now, Cruz went on to say, weeks later, that he would vote for Trump. Since the election, he’s also sided with Trump on various issues, even to the disappointment of some of his supporters. There are some, however, who will not soon forget his refusal to bow at the gilded feet of Trump on the convention stage. Ingraham, although she didn’t move to Texas and challenge Cruz for his seat is no doubt signaling to some loyalists that the senator should eventually pay the price.



&&&&&

+++++

The First Wives Club: Ivana Trump Dishes On Her Continued Influence With The President

2017-10-09

Are you familiar with the 1996 film, “The First Wives Club,” starring Goldie Hawn, Bette Midler, and Diane Keaton?

If not, remedy that, ASAP. It’s hilarious. The premise is that three old college gal pals, now middle aged and dealing with ex-husbands who tossed them away for “younger models,” band together to get even against the men who used up their youth and then went off to live out their midlife crises.

Towards the end of the movie there’s about a 20 second cameo by the first wife of President Trump, Ivana Trump.

Never has there been a more fitting cameo.

In support of a new book, “Raising Trump,” Ivana Trump is doing a series of interviews. On Sunday, CBS aired their interview, where she explained that without Ivana, there would be no President Donald.

During an interview on CBS News that aired Sunday, she was asked: “He wouldn’t be who he is without you?”

“That’s for sure,” Ivana Trump replied.
So you’re to blame?

Gotcha.

Ivana is the mother of Donald Jr., Eric, and Ivanka Trump. She describes her children as “articulate” and “intelligent.”

She left out “complicit,” but we can see where she’s going.

After 15 years of marriage, Trump moved on to his younger model – Marla Maples. She was the showgirl mistress who refused to abort their daughter, Tiffany, so Trump divorced Ivana and married Marla.

Reportedly, Ivana still holds ill feelings towards Marla Maples for breaking up her marriage, and won’t even refer to her by name, calling her a “nobody.”

Ivana also claims to be a big influence on how Trump behaves today.

Ivana Trump also said she advised the president to tweet to get his message across without having to go through the media.

Tweeting is “his new way, how to put the message across,” she added.
She went as far as to say the president asks her if he should tweet or not, and she encourages that.

Ok. Back to “The First Wives Club,” a club Ivana Trump belongs to –

The first wives in the movie plot against their exes, leading (and misleading) them, through various forms of trickery, until they’ve thoroughly enacted their revenge.

Should somebody refresh the president on what happened to the unfaithful husbands at the hands of their vengeful first wives in that movie?

If Ivana is encouraging President Trump to tweet out the ridiculousness that he tweets out for the world to see, daily, why does he believe it’s for his good?

&&&&&

+++++

Organizations Seeking Visitor Logs From Mar-A-Lago Will Be Disappointed

2017-10-05

In response to a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit brought by the National Security Archive, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW) and the Knight First Amendment Institute at Columbia University, Secret Service officials are reporting that keeping track of visitors to President Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort is going to be difficult.

Mainly, because there are no visitor logs, and no system set up since Trump’s election that would adequately track who has access to the president while he’s spending time at what he has called “the southern White House.”

In September, in answer to the lawsuit, Trump’s administration released a page or two of names, mostly related to the visit earlier this year by Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, but nothing more.

Said the Secret Service official responding to the FOIA lawsuit:

 “The…search and review of records confirmed that there is no system for keeping track of Presidential visitors at Mar-a-Lago, as there is at the White House Complex,” Special Agent Kim Campbell wrote.

“Specifically, it was determined that there is no grouping, listing or set of records that would reflect Presidential visitors to Mar-a-Lago.”
The question now could logically turn to if there is a duty to set up visitor logs for Trump’s resorts, since he spends as much time there as he does at the White House, and in some instances, as we saw with Abe, conducts official government business at these locations.

With the Russia probe and Trump’s administration under intense scrutiny, having visitor logs isn’t just necessary, but could also serve to help Trump, by eliminating the perception of him as a Nixonesque paranoid with something to hide.

Where CREW and the other organizations seeking answers will go now remains to be seen.

&&&&&

+++++

After The Las Vegas Tragedy, Trump Is Ready To Talk About Gun Laws

2017-10-03

Given the media love President Trump got for dealing with Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi, who would be shocked if he was equally accommodating with talk of new gun laws, especially in light of Sunday’s Las Vegas horror?

There’s really no indication of what the president’s response will be, but as was to be expected, Sunday night’s events have rekindled the debate on reforming gun laws.

As a candidate, Trump was endorsed and supported by the National Rifle Association. His sons are hunters. His base is fiercely pro-Second Amendment. That may be enough to hold him firm, but then, his base was fiercely pro-border wall/pro-immigration law enforcement before the election, and he’s adjusted his stance on that, considerably, since being elected.

The base has actually been pretty malleable on that wall and DACA, at least judging by their reactions, thus far.

Would they be equally understanding if Trump were to look to the left on this one more issue?

If nothing else, Trump is ready to take a new look at dabbling with current gun laws.

From the Washington Times:

President Trump said Tuesday that his administration will weigh new gun laws in the wake of the Las Vegas massacre, as he praised police for the “miracle” of their quick response to the worst mass shooting in modern U.S. history.

“We have a tragedy,” Mr. Trump told reporters at the White House. “We’ll be talking about gun laws as time goes by.”

Asked about legislation on gun silencers, Mr. Trump replied, “We’ll talk about that later.”
The president will be in Puerto Rico today, surveying the damage left in the wake of Hurricane Maria, so that debate won’t come today.

The issue isn’t going to go away without a fight, however.

The focus has been on silencers (even though Paddock didn’t use a silencer). Expect it to turn to bump-stocks.

What you won’t hear careful consideration of is that the crimes committed by Stephen Paddock were Paddock’s fault, and only Paddock’s. Stiffer gun laws will not make criminals more inclined to become lawful (look at Chicago). They simply serve to make law abiding citizens more vulnerable.


&&&&&

+++++

North Korea Is Breathing Threats, Puerto Rico Needs Help, But It’s OK, Says Trump From The Golf Course

2017-10-01

So the big media battle this weekend has been between those who saw Trump’s tweets against Puerto Rico as a callous, atrocious lack of sensitivity or empathy, versus those loyalists who would do literally anything to defend him.

The oppo on San Juan’s Mayor Carmen Yulín Cruz came fast and furious, with those who’ve taken the orange in full attack mode, because she didn’t praise Trump, she had to be neutralized.

And I’ll agree that if she’s doing TV interview after interview, rather than meeting with FEMA, then she’s neglecting her duties as mayor.

I’ll even go as far as saying there might be a partisan angle to her efforts before the camera. She is a Democrat, and she did support Hillary Clinton, after all.

If we’re to brave the psychological horrors that come with attempting to enter the mind of some of those that so vociferously defend the president, however, we see that there are those among us who don’t care as much about the people in Puerto Rico suffering as much as they do the fact that the mayor of San Juan didn’t bend the knee to Donald Trump (the only appropriate kneeling).

We should be looking at what’s happening in Puerto Rico through nonpartisan lenses, but that’s just not the world we live in, anymore.

Compassion is in short supply, these days.

Speaking of people who don’t care, let’s look at King President Trump’s weekend, outside of Twitter.

While the Donald was saying of Puerto Ricans that they sat back and waited on others to help them, rather than to help themselves, he was tweet-raging from his luxurious golf resort in Bedminster, New Jersey.

No matter what you think of the mayor of Puerto Rico, shouldn’t that nudge your conscience a little bit?

Trump, being eternally self-involved and tone deaf, of course, missed how that might send a horrible message.

And speaking of partisan, any Republican who blows this off as no big deal, but freaked out over President Obama’s poorly timed, equally tone deaf golf retreats is a hypocrite of the lowest sort.

So after a day of really horrible optics on Saturday, what is the gilded toad planning for today? Has he got some plan in place to redeem himself?

Well, besides taking another swipe at San Juan’s mayor, he’s changed his schedule –  not to get to work on the crucial details of caring for the U.S. citizens in need in Puerto Rico, or North Korea, or tax reform.

He certainly didn’t go to church.

Yeah. He’s going to do more of the golf thing, by attending the President’s Cup Golf Tournament at Liberty National Golf Club.

Because of course he is.

Trump is scheduled to arrive at the course this afternoon and will participate in the trophy presentation at 6 p.m. Several former presidents attended the tournament this week, including Barack Obama, George W. Bush and Bill Clinton.
And yes, I know his loyalists will continue to circle the wagons and play defense, no matter what it takes or what he does.

He said it himself: He could shoot somebody on Fifth Avenue and wouldn’t lose his supporters.

What a twisted, callous, dumb time to be alive.



&&&&&

+++++

Can A Trump Appearance Save Strange’s Chances In Alabama Primary?

2017-09-22

Go, Roy, Go!

The runoff election for the Republican primary, in order to compete for Jeff Sessions’ vacant Senate seat is just a few days away, and things are heating up between establishment favorite, Luther Strange, and former Supreme Court Justice Roy Moore.

Things will probably get a bit more interesting, after President Trump and then Vice President Pence head to Alabama to push for Strange.

Trump is due to go on Friday evening, while Pence will drop in on Monday, with hopes of turning the tide in Strange’s favor.

Strange has expressed confidence in riding Trump’s popularity to a win, but if the citizens of Alabama have a say, that may not be the case.

According to a new Fox10 News/Strategy Research survey, Moore has the advantage.

Moore has 54 percent, to Strange’s 46 percent.

A poll from last month had Strange 18 points behind, and Strange feels Trump’s visit to Huntsville tonight will give him that final bump he needs.

Trump has credited the tightening in the race to his backing of Strange, but the Fox10 survey found that only two in 10 Republicans said they were swayed by the presidential endorsement.
Strange’s supporters are insisting that the polls have oversampled unlikely voters, in order to give Moore the edge.

Alabama’s secretary of state is predicting a low turnout.

To date, Moore has the backing of some of Trump’s most ardent supporters.

Sarah Palin and Seb Gorka headlined a pro-Moore event on Thursday night.

Breitbart and its chairman Stephen Bannon, who until recently was Trump’s chief strategist in the White House, are squarely behind Moore. A pro-Trump outside group called Great America Alliance is going up with pro-Moore ads this weekend during the Alabama football game.
Strange, on the other hand, has the backing of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s PAC, and they’ve poured millions of dollars into the race, but have yet to see a poll that has Strange in the lead.

The poll utilized 2,000 likely voters, and has a 3 percent margin of error.



&&&&&

+++++

How Much Has The RNC Paid To Cover Trump Legal Fees, And Who Is Benefitting?

2017-09-21

On Tuesday, Jim Jamitis brought you the report that President Trump is apparently using reelection campaign funds to pay legal fees incurred from the ongoing Russia probe.

As Jim pointed out, it’s apparently a perfectly legal and allowable thing. Of course, while he’s dipping from that well, depleting those funds, in about 3 years, when it’s actually time to worry about reelection (which I’m willing to bet he doesn’t seek), the people giving into that fund now had better be prepared to keep giving.

To date, only eight months into his presidency, legal fees for the Russia probe have cost the Republican National Committee over $400,000. According to Politico, that is the August total, and we’re at the end of September, so you can imagine it’s quite a bit more, now.

So where is the money going?

Jay Sekulow has found rolling over on conservatism to be quite profitable, as he’s netted, so far, $131, 250, and the other member of Trump’s legal team, John Dowd, has collected $100,000.

That’s $231,250. Where’s the rest?

The RNC also spent nearly $200,000 to cover Donald Trump Jr.’s legal fees, according to a committee official. More than $166,000 was paid to attorney Alan Futerfas, while another $30,000 was paid to the Williams & Jensen firm. Both helped the younger Trump prepare for testimony.
I’m sure there’s some legal, loophole-y way around this. According to the Federal Elections Commission, private campaign funds can be used for bills that arise from being a candidate or an elected official.

Which of those is Donald Trump Jr, again?

Maybe there’s an umbrella provision that allows family members to dip into the funds, as well.

Either way, as the Russia probe seems to be expanding further, gathering steam and focus, donors should know they’re not so much donating to the “Re-elect Trump Fund,” so much as it appears they’re donating to the “Keep the Trump family out of federal prison Fund.”

Nostrovia!


&&&&&

+++++

The White House Confirms What Many Of Us Already Knew About Trump’s Views On Amnesty

2017-09-13

I’m not sure why it is that some of us heard Trump’s words so clearly during the primaries, rightly discerning what was just babbling bull, and what was the real Trump, while others gobbled up his every syllable with unwavering faith that he meant everything he said.

They treated every insane, mish-mashed bit of word salad as a holy edict from on high, and they finally had a hero to worship – because he said what he meant.

The problem is, those same Trump faithful, who believed everything he said, had a really selective filter. They’d conveniently sift past those things he said that contradicted previous things, clinging to what they wanted to believe was his stance. Even if the contradiction was pointed out to them, it quickly became, “What he meant to say was…”

Or outright denial.

So let’s talk about that big, beautiful wall, DACA, and his pre-election campaign promises that got his base so giddy.

As of last week, we know he wants DACA codified through Congress. In other words, he wants to make sure Obama’s disastrous executive orders are made nice and legal, lest an actual conservative president ever take over and try to overturn them.

He is working with Democrats now, after all. When Nancy Pelosi asked him to assure “Dreamers” they were safe, Trump quickly complied with her wishes and said exactly what she wanted in a tweet.

What about that wall? Well, we know Mexico isn’t paying for it. That was his first campaign lie. He wanted to stick American taxpayers with it.

As of yesterday, the notion of “fixing” DACA, but including funding to begin constructing the wall, as part of a compromise with Democrats to allow “Dreamers” to become legal, on the condition of securing the border with the wall was pretty much scrapped. The administration is now proposing that there need not be any conditions for wall funding attached to the efforts to make DACA more than former President Obama’s whim, but an actual, legal reality.

As an answer to this sudden turn left at Amnesty Avenue, the question was addressed during a White House press briefing on Tuesday, by White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders:

When asked during Tuesday’s White House press briefing about Trump’s support of amnesty, Sanders replied, “I think the president has spoken out very clearly that he wants us to make this decision based on a variety of factors. But the number one thing is that he wants responsible immigration reform and part of that is including that in the process.”

She went on to say that Trump “always wanted responsible immigration reform.”
Most of us understand that “immigration reform” is a dressed-up way of saying amnesty.

You know, amnesty, that thing Trump’s faithful were so very certain that he would put a stop to, if only given the presidency.

Other than Ann Coulter, who has reached the apoplectic stage of realization and is having an emotional breakdown on social media, nearly every day, Trump fans are noticeably less vocal, these days.

That’s not to suggest they’ve disappeared, completely. There are enough Bill Mitchells and Sean Hannitys out there, willing to frame this as 65th dimensional, underwater, upside down chess, to keep the insanity going for quite some time.

I’m guessing that there are those who will always make excuses for him, no matter what, since they feel chained by partisan obligation to their choices.

The rest of us, however, will do our best not to say, “I told you so.”


&&&&&

+++++

GOP Lawmakers Shouldn’t Be Encouraging The Decline Of Qualified Leadership

2017-09-02

People of Wisconsin, I’m so sorry.

Apparently, one slipped through the cracks and there’s a real nut haunting the halls of Congress, and he’s there representing your state.

Specifically, I’m speaking of Rep. Sean Duffy, who gave a shout out to Kid Rock on Twitter Friday evening.

I get that the general public has been dumbed down to accept total incompetence as qualifications for higher office, as long as it annoys the “other side,” but for elected officials to actively cheer on the furtherance of this swift rush to the bottom is inexcusable.

Kid Rock, or Robert Ritchie, if you care about things other than stage personas and celebrity, is toying with the idea of challenging Democrat Senator Debbie Stabenow, in Michigan.

As best as anyone can tell, his only “qualifications” for the job are being a rabid Trump supporter, and songs with titles like, “Only God Knows Why” and “You Never Met a MotherF***er Quite Like Me.” You know, because those thoughts totally go together in this new celebration of our decline.

And yes, I’ve absolutely heard the arguments of how tired the American voter is of politicians. Newsflash: When they run for office, they become a politician, so you’re not going to get rid of politicians without anarchy.

I don’t know about you, but I’m in no rush to see the nation become some real world scene out of “The Road Warrior.” We’re already a toe-touch away from “Idiocracy.”

Personally, I’d like to see new rules implemented for anyone seeking to run for public office from the state level, up.

First, they must have some experience in some office at the community level, whether it’s serving on the local school board, city council, or as mayor. Without that experience on the community level, they don’t move up to anything on the state level, and certainly nothing on the federal level.

Next, a thorough physical and psychological evaluation. Self-explanatory, and necessary, I believe.

Finally, they must pass a basic Civics exam, in order to assure they have an idea what they’re taking on.

Do those three things and it will weed out celebrities using higher office to pump up their brand, and we might just be able to keep our nation afloat.

&&&&&