+++++

Press Attacks Murdoch Outlets For Not Being Trump-Russia Obsessed

2017-11-03

Most establishment press outlets initially gave wildly disproportionate time and attention to the Monday indictment of March-August 2016 Donald Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort, to the exclusion or near exclusion of many other stories, particularly Russia-related items relating to Hillary Clinton, Bill Clinton, the Clinton Foundation and the Obama administration.

Several outlets owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. have not — and the press is furiously and often dishonestly attacking them.

On Tuesday, as noted in a NewsBusters post, CNN found "some" Fox News employees who claimed to be, in reporter Oliver Darcy's words, "embarrassed and humiliated" by the network's coverage — first, because the network "found plenty of time to cover other topics, like the NFL protests, North Korea, and tax reform," while CNN and MSNBC "aired non-stop rolling coverage throughout the day"; and second, because "Fox News aired segments that questioned (special counsel Robert) Mueller's credibility" and looked at how 'Trump and his allies were responding to the news."

In other words, in the whiners' world, you weren't a real journalist on Monday unless you were all Manafort-Trump-Russia, all the time, with completely one-sided reporting.

The cacophony of press criticism has extended to other Murdoch-owned outlets (bolds are mine throughout this post):

As Clay Waters noted at NewsBusters Wednesday afternoon, Jim Rutenberg at the New York Times complained that "The collective coverage from The (Wall Street) Journal editorial page, The New York Post and Fox News ... was testament to the Murdoch empire’s ability to make its own journalistic weather."
At the Washington Post on Wednesday, obsessed Never-Trumper Jennifer Rubin took issue with the "The sorry state of Murdoch media." Aiming her fire at a Journal editorial arguing that Mueller "could best serve the country by resigning to prevent further political turmoil over ... conflict of interest," Rubin decried how "The perceived shift in the Journal’s editorial board ... is symptomatic of the intellectual rot that has eaten away at the right, and at the Republican Party specifically." Hardly. The Journal's editorial board has had a glaring blind spot on immigration for decades, even, in 1984, advocating a five-word constitutional amendment reading "There shall be open borders." On Thursday, after the terrorist attack in New York City which killed eight, a typically naive Journal editorial berated Trump for criticizing the diversity visa program, the initiative which allowed alleged perpetrator Sayfullo Saipov into the country with minimal vetting, describing the President's harsh words as an attempt to "scapegoat."
At Slate, Justin Peters went after Fox backhandedly ("Fox News Did a Great Job Covering the Mueller Indictments. Then Shepard Smith Signed Off") — and complained that "Smith’s good work started to come undone as soon as The Five came on the air at 5 p.m. "
An especially cynical and dishonest critique came from Jason Schwartz at Politico:

Murdoch-owned outlets bash Mueller, seemingly in unison

After resisting opportunities to take Trump's line on Russia, the Wall Street Journal editorial page goes all in.

The Wall Street Journal editorial page has in the past been a stern critic of Donald Trump, but in recent days has come under fire for pieces that critics say shift attention away from the president — with many people, including former staffers, left to wonder why.

After having generally avoided Trump’s efforts to de-legitimize democratic institutions, the Journal last week wrote an editorial calling for special counsel Robert Mueller to resign and featured a contributor op-ed Sunday afternoon that said Trump should issue a blanket pardon in the Russian scandal, including of himself. The Journal has also called for an investigation into Democratic Party collusion with Russia, a conservative talking point in the wake of a Washington Post report that Hillary Clinton’s campaign paid for some of the opposition research that led to the infamous “dossier” of anti-Trump information – but which made no suggestion of any collusion with Russia.

The points made in the pieces in the Journal, owned by Rupert Murdoch, not only tracked with White House talking points but were similar to those being hawked on other Murdoch properties, including the New York Post and Fox News.
Taking the six bolded items in order:

Schwartz clearly believes that anything which "shifts attention away from the president" is out of bounds — even the crimes and scandalous behavior which led to Russia gaining control of 20 percent of the U.S. uranium supply while Barack Obama was President and Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State, and even the fact that Clinton's campaign and the Democratic National Committee funded the infamous, bogus Trump-Russia dossier.
Such de-legitimization "attempts" by Trump pale in comparison to those undertaken during the Obama administration, and in comparison to the left's year-long effort to de-legitimize the November 2016 presidential election winner.
The Journal editorial, as already noted, was a call for Mueller to resign based on his conflict of interest. Specifically, "the FBI’s role in Russia’s election interference must now be investigated—even as the FBI and Justice insist that Mr. Mueller’s probe prevents them from cooperating with Congressional investigators." Assuming one genuinely wants to see all necessary investigations conducted and conclude, that's a quite defensible position to take.
In a later paragraph, Schwartz acknowledged that the "contributor op-ed" was written by "David Rivkin, Jr. and Lee Casey, lawyers who served in the White House and Justice Department under Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush." These people aren't lightweights, and their advocacy for "a blanket presidential pardon to anyone involved in supposed collusion with Russia or Russians during the 2016 presidential campaign, to anyone involved with Russian acquisition of an American uranium company during the Obama administration, and to anyone for any offense that has been investigated by Mr. Mueller’s office" in favor of investigations by Congress" arguably gives a lot of people associated with the second and third items a free pass they don't deserve.
In Jason Schwartz's warped world, that infamous, bogus Trump-Russia dossier funded by the Hillary campaign and the DNC is only a "conservative talking point." No, Jason. It's been reported as a fact by one of the left's leading news outlets.
Whether Schwartz likes it or not, conceding, as he apparently has, that the Clinton campaign and the DNC funded the dossier compiled by Fusion GPS as a result of Christopher Steele's assemblage of information from Russian operatives means that, through intermediaries, there was collusion with Russia.
Schwartz's screed originally contained two serious errors of omission. One of them has since been corrected in a disingenuously labeled "clarification." A Journal editorial on Tuesday described the errors:

The Press Loves Fusion GPS Politico fails to disclose that one of our critics works for Fusion.
... (Schwartz) quoted Neil King, identifying him as a former WSJ editor who slammed our work and said “I don’t know a single WSJ alum who’s not agog at where that edit page is heading.” Perhaps Mr. King is agog because Axios reported in January that he had joined . . . Fusion GPS.

So Politico quotes an employee of Fusion to attack The Wall Street Journal for criticizing Fusion. Even better, Mr. Schwartz didn’t tell his readers that Mr. King has worked for Fusion. Mr. Schwartz also failed to point out that Mr. King’s wife, Shailagh Murray, also a former Journal reporter, worked in the Obama White House. Perhaps Mr. Schwartz understands that this kind of political incestuousness is so routine in Washington that even to mention it would get him drummed out of the club.

... If reporters want to know why Donald Trump finds too many willing believers for his false anti-media tirades, they might consider the dishonest reporting of the kind practiced here by Politico.
Politico's posted clarification — "An earlier version of this story failed to mention Neil King’s work for Fusion GPS." — went up 29 hours after Schwartz's original time stamp. His wife's employment, further affecting King's perceived objectivity, still wasn't disclosed.

Memo to WSJ's opinion writers: This "dishonest reporting" and the media Murdoch pile-on demonstrate that at least some of Trump's anti-media tirades aren't false

&&&&&

+++++

As CNN and MSNBC Go Wall-to-Wall With Trump-Russia, 'Some' at Fox Are Embarrassed at Its Coverage

2017-10-31

Monday, as Paul Manafort and others were indicted, the CNN and MSNBC had the following rules for covering the indictments and other matters relating to the Robert Mueller-led investigation into Russia and the 2016 election: 1) Thou shalt only cover matters relating to President Donald Trump and Russia; 2) While doing so, thou shalt ignore Russia's interactions with Bill Clinton and Secretary of State and 2016 presidential candidate Hillary Clinton; 3) Thou shalt not report on any other news stories while on-air.

The CNN Media blog reported that a few leftists at the more open-minded Fox News are furious their network didn't fall in line, both in saturation and tone.

This afternoon, CNN's Oliver Darcy set out to do what this CNN Media team tries to do every day, which is make Fox look bad. However, his write-up exposed his colleagues at CNN and those at competitor MSNBC as totally obsessed de facto partisan hacks (bolds are mine):

Some employees at Fox News were left embarrassed and humiliated by their network's coverage of the latest revelations in special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation into Russian election meddling, according to conversations CNN had with several individuals placed throughout the network.
"I'm watching now and screaming," one Fox News personality said in a text message to CNN as the person watched their network's coverage. "I want to quit."

"It is another blow to journalists at Fox who come in every day wanting to cover the news in a fair and objective way," one senior Fox News employee told CNN of their outlet's coverage, adding that there were "many eye rolls" in the newsroom over how the news was covered.

The person said, "Fox feels like an extension of the Trump White House."

On Monday, it was revealed that President Trump's former campaign manager Paul Manafort and another associate Rick Gates had been indicted by a grand jury on 12 counts, including conspiracy against the United States. Unsealed court records also revealed that another Trump associate, George Papadopoulos, had pleaded guilty to making a false statement to the FBI weeks ago.

The revelations jolted through the news media, and Fox News -- the highest rated network in the country -- did cover it as its top story. But in contrast with CNN and MSNBC, which aired non-stop rolling coverage throughout the day, Fox News found plenty of time to cover other topics, like the NFL protests, North Korea, and tax reform.
So CNN and MSNBC were all Manafort, Mueller et al, all the time, while Fox actually covered other stories.

Fox isn't the network which should be embarrassed. No one can rationally claim that the other topics Darcy identified didn't have newsworthy developments yesterday. Each had visibility at noon yesterday at the Drudge Report, which, along with Google and MSN, is one of the three most trafficked news sites in the nation. Throw in the trial of sitting U.S. Senator and Democrat Robert Mendenez and there's another story that should matter to viewers, but not according to the CNN Media team.

This is also worth noting given that Mueller's legal filings against the three men involved didn't illustrate any evidence of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia (which is, presumably, the Swamp's Holy Grail).

Besides, we all know how things worked out for CNN when they went all-in on Malaysian Airlines Flight 370. The fact that we can still mention that shows how ludicrous that was and reflected poorly on the network. Grand CNN master Jeff Zucker could try to spin it otherwise, but these attempts are just disgraceful

Meanwhile, lefty whiners at Fox also acted as if the network's evening opinion shows shouldn't be allowed to, well, express their opinions:

Fox News journalists took significant issue with their network's opinion hosts, who deflected from the news and, in Sean Hannity's case, characterized Mueller's investigation as a "witch hunt," a term Trump used on Sunday in a angry tweet to describe the probe.
"That segment on Outnumbered [questioning Mueller's integrity] was absurd and deserves all the scorn it can get," a Fox News employee told CNN, referring to the network's noontime talk show.

The person added that it was "laughable seeing Hannity and [Laura] Ingraham," two Fox News opinion hosts who are openly supportive of Trump, "tripping over themselves saying [Mueller's team has] found nothing thus far."

Perhaps I'm wrong, but it's hard to imagine that CNN's and MSNBC's one-dimensional imitations of Court TV didn't cause a lot of channel-changing, once many viewers figured out that the Trump-Russia-Manafort story was all they would see, all day and all night.

At the end of the day, people probably have a hard time seeing how Russia affects their lives. North Korea, one of their Senators possibly going to jail, and taxes certainly matter. But in the minds of CNN's media team, they're probably just mindless "Fox-friendly topics."

&&&&&

+++++

Time: Trump's Cabinet 'Wrecking Crew' Is 'Dismantling Government As We Know It'

2017-10-29

The most recent cover of Time Magazine — or I should say what's left of it, given its parent company's recent decision "reducing ... circulation and frequency" of the formerly iconic publication — calls President Donald Trump's cabinet "The Wrecking Crew" on a mission of "dismantling government as we know it."

Separate reports singled out EPA Director Scott Pruitt, Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, and HUD Secretary Ben Carson for scrutiny.

The cover's word selection is obviously out of line, as none of the three is proposing to "dismantle" — meaning to "take (something) apart" (and not put it back together) — the agencies under their charge. The headlined addition of "as we know it" doesn't change that. But it does feed leftist paranoia, which is apparently the point.

Of course, none of Time's four articles pointed out that "government as we know it" has gone from spending just over $2 trillion per year to just shy of $4 trillion in the past 20 years. After taking inflation into account, that's a 41 percent increase in real terms. Today's "government as we know it" doesn't accomplish much more than it did 20 years ago — unless getting in the way of progress is considered an accomplishment.

That didn't stop Deputy Washington Bureau Chief and Senior Correspondent Massimo Calabresi from claiming a "dismantling" again in his opening content. Rather than cite recent related statements by Trump, likely because he couldn't find any that were sufficiently inflammatory, Calabresi obsessed over Steve Bannon. Bannon was fired two months ago (the link is to Time's report on the firing), largely because he seemed to relish making outlandish claims, using terms like "deconstruction," about the scope of Team Trump's efforts.

Calabresi cited the departed Bannon's description of "deconstruction" in his opening paragraph as his basis for then trying to move readers' fright meter into the red (bolds are mine throughout this post):

While Trump Is Tweeting, These 3 People Are Undoing American Government as We Know It

... For most of the year since Trump's stunning election win, his pronouncements have commanded the public's attention the way an unexpected announcement does on a long plane ride. But on the ground, things have been happening. Quietly, the Administration has taken thousands of actions, affecting everyone from the poorest day laborer to the richest investment banker. And it's touting its work. "No President or Administration has deregulated or withdrawn as many anticipated regulatory actions as this one in this short amount of time," says White House communications director Hope Hicks.
Two major moves have enabled the Trump administration to begin to get a grip on regulations — but it's only a beginning, as we'll see shortly.

One is Trump's decision to dust off the Congressional Review Act, a 1996 law passed while Newt Gingrich was House Speaker and Bob Dole was Senate Majority Leader. It went into force with Democratic President Bill Clinton's signature. The CRA initially gave the Trump administration the ability to review and withdraw "rules adopted as far back as June 3, 2016" — and many were indeed withdrawn. Frequently utilizing this law made particular sense because the Obama administration had gone into regulatory overdrive during its final months.

The other major contributor to the halt in the expansion of regulatory overreach has been Trump's January 30 Executive Order telling agencies that "for every one new regulation issued, at least two prior regulations (are to) be identified for elimination."

For all the ginned-up outrage on the left and all of the administration's back-patting, the following sentence in a complimentary item at Ben Shapiro's Daily Wire tells us that Trump has only stopped the net increase in regulations, which is obviously a far cry from "dismantling":

The Mercatus Center's Patrick McLaughlin ... studied the total "output of regulatory restrictions promulgated in the last several presidencies, going back to Jimmy Carter," and found that Trump had managed to make the net increase of regulatory restrictions "zero."
In other words, Trump has to this point only stopped the monster from growing bigger.

Contradicting the alarmism on its cover and in Calabresi's introduction, two of Time's three items on specific Cabinet officials were relatively complimentary.

With DeVos, Stuart Taylor Jr. wrote about "What Betsy DeVos Gets Right About Campus Sexual Assault."

In early September, DeVos spoke out against 2011 Obama-era regulations which weakened normal due-process protections for college students accused of sexual assault. As Taylor described it, those regs "weakened traditional protections for the accused, like presumption of innocence and the right to cross-examine an accuser." In her speech, DeVos decried them as "shameful ... un-American, and ... (an) anathema to the system of self-governance to which our Founders pledged their lives over 240 years ago."

Despite many knee-jerk outcries after that speech, Taylor noted, with apparent wonder:

Less predictable was the support DeVos received from other, traditionally liberal quarters. She won cautious applause from the editorial boards of the Washington Post, the Boston Globe and USA Today. Even more surprising, she is making common cause with some respected feminist law professors, major organizations of lawyers and even California Governor Jerry Brown, a progressive Democrat. On Oct. 15, Brown vetoed a bill designed to perpetuate the Obama regulations in his state, citing some "colleges' failure to uphold due process for accused students."
Tessa Berenson's item on Ben Carson and HUD actually gave sympathy to common-sense, center-right themes which are important to Carson:

How can the government help people in need by propping them up without becoming a crutch?

... the real goal of the agency, Carson argues, has to be for people to no longer need its help at all.
Virtually all of Time's venom was found in Justin Worland's item on Pruitt. Examples include the following:

... the sharp turn at the EPA and Pruitt's close ties to the industry have raised questions about whose interests the agency is protecting.

... the change has also weakened an agency designed to save lives.

... In Pruitt's view, protecting the environment is just one element of his job as the country's chief environmental regulator, on par with promoting the economy. (Heaven forbid.)

... Schedules released in response to open record requests show that his calendar has been crammed with meetings with industry executives, from the president of Shell Oil Co. to Bob Murray, the Ohio coal baron. (You're no longer economic royalty if your company has been flirting with bankruptcy for over a year.)

... In most cases, Pruitt does not argue that regulations have no benefits. Instead, he attacks them as inconsistent with the letter of the law and argues that the economic costs outweigh the benefits. (Imagine that.)
In his wrap, Worland screeched that "The chemicals and pollutants spilling into our air and water will not just disappear when a new EPA chief comes to town." The truth is their reduction will continue, as they have for at least the past 50 years.

So at the end of the day, Time's "Wrecking Crew" alarmism about "dismantling" and "deconstruction" is bogus. But management must think it will sell magazines, even though biased far-left reporting is what has caused its ongoing shrinkage.

&&&&&

+++++

NYT's Egan Perpetuates Obama-As-Uniter Mythology to Attack Trump

2017-10-28

Reporter-turned-columnist Timothy Egan at the New York Times is so enamored of the mythology surrounding Barack Obama that he claimed in a Friday column that the 44th President's rhetoric "was the best American music" which "celebrated" a United States where, in Egan's words, "people from all races, ideologies and religious sects would check their hatreds at the door after becoming citizens."

Egan based his fantasy-driven view of Obama's rhetoric and legacy on four quotes from just one 2008 speech, which then, in his mind, gave the Times columnist free rein to pretend that the nation's current identity-driven divisions are all due to current President Donald Trump.

It's telling that to make his flawed case, Egan's column solely referred to Obama's words from a single speech which is now over 9-1/2 years old, delivered 10 months before he was first inaugurated.

Here is the first of four quotes Egan used from that speech (bolds are mine throughout this post):

(Trump) has shattered the idea, eloquently expressed by President Barack Obama, that we are not "irrevocably bound to a tragic past."
Obama hastily-planned March 18, 2008 speech at the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia took place only because the controversy surrounding his longtime membership in Chicago's Trinity United Church of Christ (TUCC), whose pastor at the time was the overtly racist Rev. Jeremiah Wright, was threatening to derail his candidacy.

Shortly after that speech, McClatchy's Margaret Talev reported the truth (also noted at NewsBusters) about TUCC's religious outlook. Talev's analysis really is worth a full reading for those who need an historical refresher, but here are a few key points:

... Jesus is black. Merging Marxism with Christian Gospel may show the way to a better tomorrow. The white church in America is the Antichrist because it supported slavery and segregation.

Those are some of the more provocative doctrines that animate the theology at the core of Trinity United Church of Christ in Chicago, Barack Obama's church.

... But in repudiating and putting in context Wright's inflammatory lines about whites and U.S. foreign policy, the Democratic presidential front-runner didn't address other potentially controversial facts about his church and its ties.

... It isn't clear where Obama's beliefs and the church's diverge.
Wright perfectly demonstrated his warped world view in his "God d**n America" sermon in 2003. A video containing only that statement is here; a longer excerpt is here. 

So Obama and his family attended a church dedicated to division, grievance, and even slavery reparations for nearly two decades. He then hoped that the establishment press would lionize the speech, while doing all it could to ignore his past and keep it away from people who several years later would be characterized as "low-information voters." The cynical strategy worked.

Even if they don't know the detailed history, millions of Americans now know that Obama's pose as a uniter was a ruse. It was brazenly aided and abetted by a press corps which desperately wanted to see Obama win the presidency (in the process betraying Hillary Clinton's 2008 candidacy). Obama's supposed dedication to unity, a pose which began with his 2004 Democratic Convention speech, began to significantly dissipate well before his 2008 president campaign ended, and, as we will see later, completely disappeared by mid-2012. Even Egan observed that "About eight million citizens voted for President Obama — twice — and then flipped their vote for Trump." That's because they saw through the outgoing president's "uniter" scam, and recognized that Hillary Clinton, if elected, would perpetuate the divisiveness and ramp it up further.

Here are the next two quotes Egan used from that March 2008 speech:

What they heard from Obama was the best American music. “In no other country is my story even possible,” he said in his 2008 speech on race. After noting that he won some of the whitest counties in the country, he criticized a view “that sees white racism as endemic, and that elevates what is wrong with America above what we know is right with America.”
Perhaps recognizing that using four quotes from one speech isn't exactly convincing evidence of a lifelong commitment to national unity, Egan structured the second sentence in this paragraph in a way that will give some readers the impression that its quote came from a much later address after Obama was first elected.

It didn't. Obama was only referring to his "commanding victories in states with some of the whitest populations in the country  during Democratic primaries — as if getting more votes from fever-swamp Democratic Party voters in those contests than the deeply flawed Hillary Clinton proves anything about his ability to unify the entire country. We now know, based on his eight-year tenure, that it clearly didn't.

Egan's fourth quote from that speech is not exactly what Obama said:

To dismiss white concern over busing or affirmative action as racist “only widens the racial divide and increases misunderstanding,” he said.
As seen both in the transcript and in the speech's video, this is what Obama said:

... to wish away the resentments of white Americans, to label them as misguided or even racist, without recognizing they are grounded in legitimate concerns - this too widens the racial divide, and blocks the path to understanding.
Egan replaced "this too" with "only," and erroneously kept the word within the quote. "Increases" — the word Egan put into the quote to replace "blocks the path to" — is not present anywhere in the speech's transcript. It would appear that the Times should consider bringing back those laid-off and early-retired copy editors.

The "Obama as uniter" scam was so obvious by May 2012 that Matt Negrin at the ordinarily Obama-worshipping ABC News pronounced it dead, and recognized that it began dying even before his 2008 presidential win:

In Memoriam: The Old Obama, Who Wanted to Bring People Together
The 2004 version of Barack Obama, who captured the nation with a dazzling speech about unity and went on to win the presidency on a message of hope, died on Monday. He was 8 years old.

... Obama's illness got the best of him late Monday, as he announced that his campaign for four more years in the White House would be based not on optimism, but rather the shady corporate record of his opponent, Mitt Romney, who ran a private-equity firm that few Americans knew about before this year.

... Obama's admission was in some ways the completion of a metamorphosis that began even during the 2008 campaign, as it became likely that he would be elected.
This news apparently hasn't yet arrived at Egan's desk or made its way to his computer. Instead, the Times columnist pretended that Donald Trump invented divisiveness and identity politics:

The National Crackup

We are retreating to our tribal, ethnic and primitively prejudicial quarters. Everything is about race and identity. We come from privilege, or oppression. We choose politicians based on whether they help our tribe or hurt People Like Us.

This is President Trump’s legacy.
No, Tim. The idea that deliberately dividing the American people began with Trump is complete horse manure, and the left completely owns the obsession with "race and identity."

A complete, thorough, fair-minded review of Obama's and his administration's statements and actions during his presidency demonstrates that he left a legacy of a "weaker and more divided America."

Additionally, Trump's "divisiveness," though often not helpful, is nonetheless successfully exposing the people who are on the brink of dominating leftist politics as violence-prone, unhinged, and out of touch with the concerns of average Americans.

&&&&&

+++++

AdAge Writer Tries to Downplay NFL's Ratings and Attendance Slides

2017-10-26

Last week, Anthony Crupi at AdAge.com was either willfully ignorant or deliberately deceptive when he claimed that the size of the National Football League's TV ratings decline is inconsequential. 

Crupi also appears to be quite wrong in contending that actual game attendance — not reported attendance, but "turnstile" attendance — during the 2017 season is only barely down compared to last year.

At the very least, many photos taken during games at several stadiums in the past two weeks (Weeks 6 and this past Sunday's Week 7 of the 17-week NFL regular season) render that contention highly questionable.

The AdAge.com writer was also cited in a September 24 "Fact Check" at the left-biased, left-funded Politifact, which at the time predictably evaluated a claim made by President Donald Trump — that, in the President's words, "NFL attendance and ratings are WAY DOWN. Boring games yes, but many stay away because they love our country." — as "Mostly False."

Crupi's contribution to that evaluation was a ratings-related statement estimating, in PolitiFact's words, "a decline of around 9 percent in (TV) ratings since last year ..."

The idea that a 9 percent ratings decline, though still early in the regular season, was relatively unimportant, and enough to render Trump's statement "Mostly False," is absurd.

Let's try this to gauge the seriousness of that 9 percent decline: Cut staff salaries at PolitiFact and AdAge.com by 9 percent for the next 12 months, and then see at the end of that period if employees believe it's "mostly false" that their living standards suffered.

As to "turnstile attendance, the figures Crupi cites appear to be quite inflated.

Here is the related ratings-related excerpt from his October 17 AdAge.com column, following his untoward reveling in his Politifact glory (link is in original; bolds are mine throughout this post):

According to Nielsen data, the various NFL telecasts—including the Sunday regional and national games and the prime-time Sunday, Monday and Thursday night packages—are averaging 15.6 million viewers through Week 6, which is down just 5 percent from a year earlier.
Bleacher Report begs to disagree on the degree of the decline, while also quoting Nielsen data, citing a drop that's 50 percent larger: "NFL Ratings Down 7.5 Percent Compared to First 6 Weeks of 2016 Season." Additionally, per Bleacher Report, "current ratings ... (are) down 18.7 percent from where they were after the six-week mark in 2015."

Here's what Crupi later wrote about this year's "turnstile attendance" vs. last year through Week 6:

Season-to-date, NFL stadiums are averaging a draw of 64,277 fans per week, which marks a slight 3 percent year-to-year decline compared to the 66,496 fans who passed through the turnstiles during each of the first six weeks in 2016.
Crupi didn't provide a link to his 2017 and 2016 turnstile attendance figures.

For those who don't realize it, the NFL's officially published attendance figures do not represent fans who "passed through the turnstiles." This has been the case for decades.

In late September 2006, Sarah Talalay at South Florida's Sun-Sentinel reported the truth about how attendance figures were and still are reported:

Not What You Think
As Long As A Ticket Is Paid For, Teams Count It For A Game's Attendance. Whether Fans Actually Show Up And Fill The Seats Doesn't Change That.

... The (Miami Dolphins home) game (that week) was declared a sellout and was televised across South Florida with an announced crowd of 72,733, but with several pockets of empty seats the attendance appeared to be closer to 60,000.

... across professional sports "attendance" hasn't meant the number of bodies in the stadium or arena for some time.
The most complete data I found consistent with officially reported NFL tickets-sold attendance at FoxSports.com (all figures there agree with Week 6 and Week 7 box scores) is at Pro-Football-Reference.com. As seen below, that site shows average game attendance through Week 6 of 67,809:

NFLattendanceThruWeek7in2017

Thus, the unlinked data Crupi has cited as "turnstile attendance" through Week 6 represents a no-show rate of just over 5 percent.

That's highly unlikely. The following games, representing just over 20 percent of the Week 6 and 7 contests (plus one other noted near the end of this post), would seem to indicate that the remaining games played during those two weeks had to have virtually zero no-shows for Crupi's no-show percentage to reflect current reality (attendance figures listed use the NFL's tickets-sold definition):

SixLowAttendanceNFLgamesWk6and7in2017

Additionally (supporting table is here), note that the NFL's reported attendance for all but two Week 6 and Week 7 games represented 97 percent and 96 percent of the total capacity of all stadiums involved (Week 7's capacity percentage at the link excludes home games of the two Los Angeles NFL teams, both of whose crowds have been far short of their stadiums' capacity).

Click on the thumbnails to see the photos taken either at kickoff time or during the six games listed above in separate tabs or windows:

NEatNYJweek6in2017 LARatJAXweek6in2017 CARatCHIweek7in2017

TENatCLEweek7in2017 JAXatINDweek7in2017 NYJatMiIAweek7in2017

Notes, in order from left to right, then top to bottom:

NE at NYJ, Week 6 — this photo, taken during a controversial play late in the game, appears to show a pretty full stadium, until one looks at the virtually empty upper-upper deck. Meeting the "Crupi standard" for show-ups would would require MetLife Stadium turnstile attendance to have been about 89 percent of capacity. I don't think so, especially because CBS Sports commented that there were "lots of empty seats as frustrated Jets fans apparently stayed home."
LAR at JAX, Week 6 — The Crupi standard requirement here is turnstile attendance of about 80 percent of capacity. No way; I'd give it 60 percent, at best.
CAR at CGO, Week 7 — Crupi standard: about 95 percent of capacity. This one's the toughest to evaluate based on the photo above, but the accompanying tweet reports that there were "a lot of empty seats." More convincing evidence of many thousands of empty seats is here.
TEN at CLE, Week 7 — Crupi standard: about 80 percent of capacity. FirstEnergy Stadium may have been half-full.
JAX at IND, Week 7 —Crupi Standard: about 91 percent of capacity. The glare of the lights in the photo makes estimation difficult, but a tweet from the game describes Lucas Oil Stadium as "very, very empty."
NYJ at MIA, Week 7 —The Crupi standard: about 94 percent of capacity. Give me a break. The Miami Dolphins were lucky if it got to 75 percent, and an observer tweeted that "Nobody cares about Jet(s) or Dolphins."
To meet the Crupi standard requiring a 5.2 percent or lower overall no-show rate for all games, total no-shows during Weeks 6 and 7 could not have totaled more than about 105,000 (about 3,600 per game times 29 games played). My back-of-envelope estimates for the six games pictured above is that they have about 75,000 no-shows. Additionally, the Empty Seats Twitter account has a photo showing tens of thousands of fans not present at a San Francisco 49ers game the NFL officially reported as sold-out. That shortfall easily brings the no-show total above the 105,000 benchmark, and no one can credibly claim that there were zero no-shows at the other twenty-plus Week 6 and Week 7 games.

One certainly hopes that advertisers and post-event watering holes in the areas of these stadiums who have CEOs and shareholders to whom they must answer aren't buying what this AdAge.com writer is trying to sell.

&&&&&

+++++

Brookings Fellow at PBS: 'Alarmism Over Trump Is Dangerous For Democracy'

2017-10-25

Pass the smelling salts. Last week, PBS, the public broadcasting behemoth, actually published a column by a clearly left-leaning Brookings Institute Senior Fellow which was mostly backed by reason and an understanding of the nation's constitutional framework.

Shadi Hamid, who is no fan of the President, warned the left and never-Trumpers that their constant "alarmism" over the actions and statement of President Donald Trump "is dangerous for democracy."

Hamid, who works on the Project on U.S. Relations with the Islamic World in the Center for Middle East Policy at Brookings, is sharply critical of many Trump policies:

"Trump’s actual policies have been a number of things: damaging, dishonorable, illiberal, and racist, but they have not been undemocratic."
"modified versions of the January “Muslim ban” were bigoted and mean-spirited and counterproductive, but there was nothing intrinsically undemocratic about them."
"The rescinding of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), which allows minors who entered the country illegally to stay, is cruel, but it is not undemocratic."
Despite the clear disagreements, Hamid is alarmed at how he left is consumed by nearly daily panic attacks (bolds are mine):

... We are confronted daily not simply with outrage, but a kind of end-of-worldism: America is on the brink of dictatorship; Trump is going start World War III; the president’s access to the nuclear codes might actually destroy the universe; if he manages to control his impulses, then his withdrawal from the Paris climate change accords will still destroy the universe, just a bit more slowly.

... Every new day, though, seems to bring new cause for panic.
He sharply criticized the left's obsession with impeachment, which, as he noted, began even before Trump was inaugurated.

Now that the effort to prove anything in that arena is sputtering — remember that this column was published six days before the Washington Post reported that the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton's campaign paid the smear specialists at Fusion GPS to compile the now-infamous compilation of fiction known as the "Trump dossier" — threw ice-cold water on those who are now trying dust off the 25th Amendment to have Trump removed:

A plain reading of 25th amendment makes clear that it doesn’t apply to our current situation. ... President Trump is able to discharge the powers of the presidency; the problem is how he discharges them, and the fact that many Americans believe (rightly) that he is discharging them rather badly. This is primarily a political, and therefore a subjective, judgment. To state the obvious, Americans, like all citizens of a democracy, have the right to elect bad, even very bad, politicians.
Yet someone as well regarded as legal scholar Eric Posner has made the argument, shared by apparently millions, that Americans should consider new ways, however unprecedented, to remove a president who reaches a certain level of subjective badness.

... The argument amounts to something more simple and sinister: that presidents who express ideologies that we find outside the bounds of acceptability can be removed, despite being democratically elected by voters.

... Ironically, the arguments made by the likes of Posner and (Tennessee Democratic Party Congressman Steve) Cohen represent a greater long-term threat to American democracy than anything Trump has done so far.

It should not surprise anyone that leftists' heads figuratively exploded in the now-closed comments section (486 of them accumulated in about 72 hours), and that defenders of Trump and/or the Constitution often received uncivil treatment. Some examples:

"It's like you intentionally ignored all of the valid reasons to remove him in the name of disproving fake ones. What a great strawman, and a sad excuse for an opinion piece."
"... a malignant narcissistic, pathologically lying, grifter with the tell tale signs of dementia is running the show."
"Ask the Jews how it worked out not being alarmed of Hitler actions."
"Given that the majority of voters actually selected the OTHER candidate, one can absolutely argue that all of Trump's actions as president are, in fact, 100% un-democratic." (Well, that's because the Founders wisely set up a republic of states, not a democracy. Sorry.)
But the best comment came from a Hamid defender, and contained only four words: "Thesis proven by comments."

&&&&&

+++++

A Troubled Associated Press Has Become Less Transparent and Accountable

2017-10-22

In recent months, it has become quite obvious that the Associated Press has made conscious moves designed to make its output and journalistic operations less transparent.

It's also reasonable to ask whether these moves are also motivated by a desire to hide what appears to be a significant shrinkage in its available resources and perhaps even its number of personnel.

Readers who still believe that how AP operates is relatively unimportant simply must understand these three things:

It is, more than any other news organization, the primary gatekeeper deciding what news deserves national attention, and what news should be ignored.
Its content, according to its 2016 audited financial statements, is disseminated to "a regular membership of US daily newspapers and an associate membership of broadcasters and non-daily newspapers totaling approximately 1,300." (As of 2007, it also claimed that its content was used by 5,000 TV and radio broadcasters. Though the info may be out there somewhere, I could not find a current comparable number.) As a result, a large percentage if not still a majority of "the news" began with work done by AP reporters and their associates in photography and video.
Over the past four or five decades the AP has used— really, abused — its gatekeeping power to attempt to dictate the narrative associated with important national stories with a leftist slant at an ever-increasing rate.
The AP began a "Big Story" site several years ago. Its intent appeared to be to preserve content considered particularly important or relevant for future researchers, historians, and its own reporters. Now it has disappeared.

"Hosted.ap.org," which tended to preserve final versions of stories for a week or two before flushing them down the memory hole, appears to be virtually gone. The only evidence I could find that it is still active in any respect consisted of a few working links at MuckRack. Directly typing "hosted.ap.org" as a URL takes the user to APnews.com (to be discussed shortly).

There still is a hosted2.ap.org website. But its underlying content, which used to have public visibility, now has none. It used to be possible to search that site through Google and occasionally find stories hosted.ap.org had already dropped, or even earlier versions of stories since revised at hosted.ap.org. Now the site only gives readers a list of about a dozen or so "Recent Headlines" with introductory blurbs. Clicking on any of those story links is supposed to take the reader to a hosted.ap.org page — which is pretty funny, given that, as noted earlier, hosted.ap.org is almost completely inactive. Instead, the user ends up at the home page of APnews.com, and has to search on the headline to find what they were looking for.

APnews.com is from all appearances the single AP-controlled website which is on track to effectively replace all of the others. Consolidating a plethora of sites into one might seem like a good idea, except that APnews.com appears to have been designed to make content difficult to find and to make all but the most recent content disappear.

For example, the site's search engine appears only to look for words in headlines and tags, and does not look for the non-sequential or even sequential presence of all of the term's words in an article's content. Thus, as seen in Saturday's NewsBusters post, an AP-NORC poll on Americans' attitudes about guns after the Las Vegas massacre, a search on "gun control" (not in quotes) at APnews.com did not return that dispatch, even though the term "gun control" is in the content. Why? I'd argue that after seeing the poll's results, which even after rigging the sample to heavily favor Democrats and liberals showed that Americans' attitudes towards gun rights haven't changed, the AP decided that its findings should remain as invisible as possible.

Additionally, APnews.com has replicated hosted.ap.org's nasty habit of revising stories on the fly without preserving any record of previous iterations. To find out what AP actually reported on a fast-developing story 12 hours ago, you have to conduct extensive needle-in-haystack searches at AP subscribers' sites and hope that the older version is still out there somewhere.

It's more than reasonable to argue that the disappearance of the Big Story site, along with how APnews.com is being handled, betray desires for less transparency and accountability. These moves open up greater opportunities to manage how stories are worded initially or at critical times of the day, e.g., just in advance of morning and evening TV news shows, without leaving readily discernible tracks once they're revised and made to look more reasonable. If subscribing print, online, radio and TV outlets seem to be mindlessly mouthing leftist talking points, it is quite likely that they're simply reading the AP content they have just been presented.

APnews.com has one other feature which longtime AP followers will find quite astonishing. Other new organizations' content is now appearing there in large volumes. Does this reflect a generous desire to give subscribing outlets visibility, perhaps in return for some form of revenue or expense offsets, or is it happening because AP is no longer capable of producing a sufficient level of content by itself?

I repeated the "gun control" search to which I referred above at 2:20 p.m. Eastern Time on Sunday; results are here. At that time, it contained 50 items, and no links to additional pages with results for that term. Only 19 of the results linked to APnews.com stories produced by AP reporters. The others originated from other outlets — and to no one's surprise, on the whole they lean clearly to the left. Some particularly odious headlines (links are to the outside publications' sites): "Never Mind Gun Control, Disarm Trump" (The New London Day); "How the US government created and coddled the gun industry" (from The Conversation, a publication of "academic experts"); "How America has silently accepted the rage of white men" (Philadelphia Tribune).

(If one clicks on the publication's name instead of the article title, one learns that APnews.com has established separate pages for each contributing outlet, with, yet again, a single-page limit of 50 items.)

So at least for site searches — already far less effective than users have a right to expect, as noted above — the Associated Press appears to have turned over more than half of its content to other outlets.

The wire service's category pages (e.g., business, sports, etc.) still contain all-AP content. But you get links and intro blurbs for (again) only 50 stories ("Lifestyle" example here), and that's it.

So is the AP shrinking, or just revamping itself to leverage how news is currently found and produced? Arguments for the former include the following:

In December 2016, it laid off 25 employees in its global news department.
Its 2016 financial statements show that revenues fell by 2 percent, and that net income, which was $184 million in 2015, barely stayed above sea level ($1.6 million) in 2016 (the hit to pretax income, going from $24 million in 2015 to $4 million in 2016, was not as severe).
Its working capital fell from a deficit of $3 million at the end of 2015 to a deficit of $47 million in 2016. Cash on hand fell by over half, from $51 million to $25 million.
It's total "compensation" expense dropped a bit, from $326 million to $324 million, which would seem to indicate a reduction in headcount.
With little if any fanfare, the wire service's contract with its Editorial Union expired on September 30.
Management has proposed steep increases in employee contributions to its health care plan, which it claims will increase "employee contributions to premiums by 53 percent next year, increase deductibles and out-of-pocket maximums and increase employees’ coinsurance in the premium plan." (Many of these reporters have written articles claiming that Obamacare hasn't affected the healthcare market for employer plans for the worse. Really?)
As far as I can tell, unlike during previous contract talks, we aren't seeing AP journalists conducting childish demonstrations or going on "byline strikes," which are supposedly hurtful because one doesn't know which reporter authored a given story (readers can be forgiven for not seeing any "logic" in this, as I certainly don't).

The usually militant News Media Guild's relatively non-hostile behavior arguably reflects the fact that it knows it can't hope to squeeze any improvements out of AP; it can only limit the bleeding.

If I'm correct in believing that the AP's moves described in this post are partially motivated by deteriorating financial conditions, it couldn't happen to a more deserving bunch.
While pretending be the prime propagator of objective news, three of its reporters were effectively campaign surrogates for Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign even before she officially announced her candidacy. Its coverage was so obviously anti-Bernie Sanders during the primaries, and then so obviously anti-Donald Trump during the general election campaign's final months, that their reports might as well have been pro-Hillary attack ads. After Trump's election, its reports, its "fact checks" and its still present but completely undeserved reputation as an impartial gatekeeper have been a major contributor to the over 90 percent negative coverage found in studies looking at the coverage of Trump and his administration.

Like other news organizations in the Trump era, instead of examining how their own conduct might be hurting them, AP insists on continuing to do the things that have done it so much damage — see what it's done to its hallowed Stylebook guidance just this year (here and here) for proof — while attempting to make calling them out for their ongoing egregious conduct much more difficult.



&&&&&

+++++

AP Pollsters Disappointed? Can't Show Las Vegas Massacre Changed Gun Views

2017-10-21

On Friday, Lisa Marie Pane and Emily Swanson at the Associated Press betrayed more than a little sadness that "The slaying of five dozen people in Las Vegas did little to change Americans’ opinions about gun laws."

This unfortunate (in their view) polling result was achieved despite a ridiculous weighting of the poll's sample towards Democrats accompanied by a failure to identify the overall political outlooks (vs. party affiliations) of those who were sampled.

The AP article was very difficult to find at the wire service's main APnews.com website. A search there on "gun control" (not in quotes) failed to return it. The search term "gun control" is in the article but not the headline, and the term "gun control" was oddly not used as a tag.

The article does appear in a search on "NORC," the polling firm currently partnering with AP — but even then, at least in my browser, only after scrolling past about a half-dozen rows of repetitive and annoying mini-panels. Even ignoring the page design problem, who would ordinarily use "NORC" as a search term?

These low-visibility tactics are consistent with how a news outlet would handle a story it doesn't want readers to see. This treatment, the error-riddled page design just noted, and other observations which will be made in a future post, indicate to me that the wire service has not only consciously decided to move towards less transparency and accountability, but that it is stagnating or even shrinking as a business entity.

As to the article itself, Pane's and Swanson's bias was, as almost anyone would have predicted, in the direction of favoring more gun control, aka making it tougher for law-abiding citizens to own guns while criminals, who by definition don't care about obeying laws, remain armed to the hilt.

Here are several paragraphs from that report, which begins with a statement which might as well read, "How can these people be so stupid?" (bolds are mine):

Vegas shooting doesn’t change opinions on guns: AP-NORC poll

The slaying of five dozen people in Las Vegas did little to change Americans’ opinions about gun laws.

The nation is closely divided on whether restricting firearms would reduce such mass shootings or homicides, though a majority favor tighter laws as they have for several years, according to a new poll from The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research.

The massive divide on stricter limits remains firmly in place.

The survey was conducted from Oct. 12-16 ...

... In this latest survey, 61 percent said the country’s gun laws should be tougher, while 27 percent would rather see them remain the same and 11 percent want them to be less strict. That’s similar to the results of an AP-GfK poll in July 2016.
Sadly, many people still believe that "tougher" gun laws are desirable because they'll supposedly make the nation safer. This unfortunate belief persists, despite the fact that more gun ownership has led to less crime in the past quarter-century (only partially offset by the "Ferguson effect" during the past three years). This belief also persists despite the fact that open-minded people like Leah Libresco who have studied how effective proposed gun control measures would be in real life have found that "the (arguments for proposed gun control) policies ... crumbled when I examined the evidence."

As to the AP-NORC poll result, yeah, the results are "similar" to the AP-GfK poll conducted 15 months earlier. But to get to that "similar" result, the pollsters engaged in a heavier weighting of Democrats vs. Republicans than the already ridiculously weighted July 2016 poll.

As to that older poll:

It consisted of 32 percent Dems, 25 percent GOP, 23 percent independents, and 20 percent "None of these or "Refused" (Dem advantage: 7 points).
After asking independents and others how they "lean," the results were 42 percent Dem, 36 percent GOP, and 23 percent "don't lean" (Dem advantage: 6 points; the numbers add to more than 100 percent because of rounding).
At the time, Gallup's party affiliation poll showed 28 percent each for the two major parties and 42 percent for independents, meaning that AP-GfK oversampled Democrats by 7 percentage points ignoring "leaners" and  6 points after including them.
Now let's look at the more recent October 12-16, 2017 poll:

It had 33 percent Dems, 22 percent GOP, 25 percent independents, and 20 percent "None of these" or "Refused" (Dem advantage: 11 points).
After asking indies and others how they "lean," the results were 45 percent Dem, 35 percent GOP, and 20 percent "don't lean" or "unknown" (Dem advantage: 10 points).
Gallup's most recent party affiliation poll (Sept. 6-10) shows 30 percent Dems, 29 percent GOP and 40 percent for independents, meaning that AP-NORC oversampled Democrats by 10 percentage points (11 minus 1) if ignoring "leaners" and 9 points (10 minus 1) after including them.
Using Gallup's decades-old party affiliation poll as a credible benchmark, the October 2017 poll distorted party affiliations by 3 percentage points more than the already seriously overweighted July 2016 poll.

What's more, the October AP-NORC poll failed to ask — or failed to report that they asked — a very important question, namely, "Generally speaking, do you consider yourself a conservative, liberal, or moderate?"

In July 2016, that weighting was 33 percent conservative, 19 percent liberal, 44 percent moderate, and 4 percent "refused" or "don't know."

The failure to ask (or report that they asked) this question opens up the possibility that, on an overall basis, the October 2017 poll may have sampled relatively more conservatives than liberals, or vice-versa, either deliberately or accidentally. Readers will have little problem guessing which one I think it is.

I'd argue that the poll found respondents who were more liberal and less conservative overall based on the differences in the type of area respondents say they live:

The percentage of those polled describing themselves as living in an "urban area," i.e., far more likely to have a more liberal outlook than those in other areas, regardless of party affiliation, rose from 24 percent in July 2016 to 28 percent in the October 2017 poll.
Meanwhile, those saying they lived in  "suburban" areas, which are usually relatively more conservative, dropped from 50 percent to 43 percent.
Partially but not completely offsetting the two differences just noted, the rural percentage of the sample rose from 23 percent to 27 percent.
The October 2017 poll betrayed additional evidence supporting the notion that its respondents were more liberal than in the previous poll. The liberal-conservative-moderate question which was removed (or not reported) was effectively replaced by "strong-moderate-lean" Democrat and Republican breakdowns in reported party affiliations or sympathies. Only 8 percent of poll respondents described themselves as "strong Republicans." That's laughably absurd.

After all that poll cooking, the AP still couldn't come up with a result they clearly wanted showing more support for gun control.

Given the facts presented here, what they really found is that there is less support — but they won't dare admit it.

&&&&&

+++++

Cuckoo New Yorker Writer: Kelly 'Used Language of the Military Coup' at Thursday Press Conference

2017-10-20

Three NewsBusters posts on Thursday documented attacks by far-leftists and members of the media on Trump administration Chief of Staff and retired General John Kelly's reaction that afternoon to Florida Democratic Congresswoman Frederica Wilson's accusation that President Donald Trump, during a private phone call to the widow of fallen soldier La David Johnson, "disrespected" him.

Not to be outdone, Masha Gessen at The New Yorker accused Kelly of using "the language of the military coup" — which Gessen seems to believe may have already been effectively accomplished, given her contention that Kelly has his job because "he was sent in to control the President."

In those NewsBusters posts, we've seen Kelly and his Thursday press briefing statement described by leftists and media hacks as that of a "nitwit," "odious" "coward," making "bizarre," "dishonest," racist remarks; as a racist who "Dehumanized" a "Black Woman"; and as someone who engaged in a "political stunt."

Those who couldn't imagine the attacks on Kelly becoming even more stuck on stupid vastly underestimated Masha Gessen.

Until very recently, based on her history, where this woman is coming from was hard to peg.

Though she appears to have been an ardent opponent of Russian President Vladimir Putin and his government in late 2013 just before that country hosted the 2014 Winter Olympics, her actions in September 2012 during a brief stint as director of Radio Liberty would seem to indicate otherwise (link added by me; bolds are mine throughout this post):

For over half a century, Radio Liberty (RL) has been a central part of the U.S. government’s efforts to support human rights and free expression in Russia and, before it, the Soviet Union. Today, tragically, Radio Liberty—or Radio Svoboda, as the Russians know it—is in turmoil, its Moscow-based staff decimated by deep cuts, and its future uncertain. And RL’s listeners are outraged. The damage done to a long-standing U.S. policy is profound.

... On September 20 and 21, without warning, over 40 of RL’s staff were summarily fired. The way this was done is what one would expect from the Soviet or Russian government. The staffers were blocked from entering their offices and escorted out by armed guards.

... the firings came shortly after the selection of a new head of the Russian service of Radio Liberty, Masha Gessen, a Russian American print journalist, the author of a biography of Putin, and gay and lesbian rights activist whom much of the controversy has centered on. Gessen, in her previous, short-term stint of Vokrug Sveta (Around the World), a semi-glossy magazine, had met with Putin just days before the firings took place, giving the impression that the Russian president had potentially exerted pressure on her.
Radio Liberty since appears to have regained its footing, stature, and influence, given that earlier this month, Putin threatened to treat it as a "foreign agent" in retaliation for perceived "unwarranted pressure on the U.S. operations of (Kremlin-funded broadcaster) RT."

Gessen left Russia for the U.S., settling in New York in late 2013 because she feared, with apparent basis, as the mother of three children adopted into a lesbian marriage, that the country's courts would take her oldest son away from her.

Gessen produced just two New Yorker columns this year between January 1 and October 3, but has suddenly posted four entries going after President Trump and his administration with a vengeance in the past ten days:

October 11 — "How Trump Uses “Religious Liberty” to Attack L.G.B.T. Rights"; this is quite odd, given that Trump, unlike his predecessor, entered the White House as "fine" with the legalization of homosexual marriage.
October 11 (that's right, two on the same day) — "How Trump Governs by Tweet: Start with Outrage, Then Escalate"
October 16 — "Trump Doesn’t Govern Like a Toddler. He Governs Like a Teen-Ager"
Friday's "John Kelly and the Language of the Military Coup"
Gessen's latest post takes the cuckoo cake (better described at Twitchy as the "coup-coup cake").

Here are her four specious "arguments" as to how Kelly's courageous, heartfelt response to Congresswoman Wilson (my opinion, obviously not hers) involves "the language of the military coup":

1. Those who criticize the President don’t know what they’re talking about because they haven’t served in the military.
What Gessen wrote in her "argument" is not what Kelly said, which is as follows: "Most Americans don't know what happens when we lose one of soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, our Coast Guardsmen in combat." That is clearly true. Gessen's blanket claim about what Kelly said is false, given that men and women in the military have mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers, relatives, and friends who are heartbroken at the loss of their loved ones and are painfully aware of at least part of Kelly's description of "what happens."

In the process of making this "argument," Gessen made an ignorant and easily refuted statement:

The one-per-cent figure (people in the military cited by Kelly as "the best one per cent this country produces — Ed.") is puzzling. The number of people currently serving in the military, both on active duty and in the reserves, is not even one per cent of all Americans.
The link is hers, and it shows that she is being disingenuous. It tallies "1.3 million active duty military and more than 800,000 reserve forces as of 2016." A table seen at the Census Bureau shows that there were 200.2 million Americans between the ages of 18 and 64 in 2016. The 2.1 million total of active duty and reserve personnel is 1.049 percent of all conceivably eligible adults. That rounds down to Kelly's 1 percent.

Gessen then seemed to shift gears, trying to claim that Kelly's "1 percent" referred to all soldiers who have died in all wars in U.S. history. That's nonsense. Kelly was speaking in the present tense, referring to U.S. military personnel who are alive and serving their country.

2. The President did the right thing because he did exactly what his general told him to do.
Again, this is utter nonsense. At the press conference, Kelly specifically said he suggested that Trump not make the calls:

When I took this job and talked to President Trump about how to do it, my first recommendation was he not do it.

(But, since Trump chose to make the calls anyway, as is his prerogative,) well, let me tell you what I told him. Let me tell you what my best friend, Joe Dunford, told me -- because he was my casualty officer. He said, Kel, he was doing exactly what he wanted to do when he was killed. He knew what he was getting into by joining that 1 percent. He knew what the possibilities were because we're at war. And when he died, in the four cases we're talking about, Niger, and my son's case in Afghanistan -- when he died, he was surrounded by the best men on this Earth: his friends.
In other words, Trump as Commander-in-Chief made his own decision to make the calls, which, despite his initial disagreement, Kelly described as "brave." Once Trump decided to do so, he wisely sought and took the advice of someone tragically more knowledgeable than him about how to conduct them.

Gessen's choice to make an artificial issue out of all of this is beneath contempt.

3. Communication between the President and a military widow is no one’s business but theirs.
Gessen writes that "Myeshia Johnson had apparently voluntarily shared her conversation with her mother-in-law and Congresswoman Frederica Wilson by putting the President on speakerphone." She blew that description too. Wilson herself has stated that "(an) aunt and uncle, a driver and a military official" were present.

Did anyone tell President Trump about everyone else was on the call with Ms. Johnson? If not, why not?

This statement from Kelly would seem to indicate that Ms. Wilson's presence on the call was not disclosed, and that the congresswoman remained silent to make sure that was the case:

It stuns me that a member of Congress would have listened in on that conversation.
The Washington Examiner's Diana Stancy Correll reported Thursday afternoon that "Wilson was with her in a limousine and heard the conversation via speakerphone, and after discussing the call with reporters has clashed with the White House on just what was said." This would also seem to indicate that Wilson did not make her presence known.

Gessen contends that "(Kelly was) claiming that the President, communicating with a citizen in his official capacity, had a right to confidentiality." No he wasn't, but he certainly had a right to expect privacy in such a sensitive situation, to expect that call would limited to the widow and other loved ones and friends, if they happened to be present and identified their presence, and expect to be made aware of everyone who was listening in on the call.

4. Citizens are ranked based on their proximity to dying for their country.
Gessen's disingenuousness apparently knows no bounds. Here's what she claims:

At the end of the briefing, he (Kelly) said that he would take questions only from those members of the press who had a personal connection to a fallen soldier, followed by those who knew a Gold Star family.
Here's what Kelly actually said before taking questions:

Let me ask you this: Is anyone here a Gold Star parent or sibling? Does anyone here know a Gold Star parent or sibling?

(After a journalist apparently raised his or her hand) Okay, you get the question.

(After answering that person's question) ... Any other -- someone who knows a Gold Star fallen person.

John?
Though we can't be absolutely sure, it would appear that if no one had raised their hand as being or knowing a Gold Star parent or sibling, Kelly would have taken questions from other journalists.

This has nothing to do with "ranking" citizens. Instead, Kelly, in his limited time, wanted to prioritize knowledgeable, intelligent questions. He's not the President's press secretary. Sarah Huckabee Sanders is, and one could argue that she should (but doesn't have to) give all journalists in the room a reasonable chance of asking a question. Kelly was under no obligation to give every person in the room a shot at asking a question.

Even after all of her misrepresentations and distortions, Masha Gessen never explained how any of this genuinely represents "the language of the military coup."

The funniest thing about preparing this post was The New Yorker's description of the quality of its reporting and prose found in a right-column promotion:

NewYorkerBestWritingSlogan1017

What a sick, elitist joke.

&&&&&

+++++

Nick Kristof Channels Walter Duranty in Instagrams From North Korea

2017-09-29

On Wednesday, I criticized Helen Gao at the New York Times for praising the "emancipation of women" in China under communist tyrant Mao Ze Dong. I also noted that in 2005, Times columnist Nicholas Kristof had engaged in similar "Mao was not all that bad" argumentation while reviewing a book conclusively showing that the death toll under Mao was over 70 million.

Little did I know that Kristof was about to embark on a trip to North Korea, where he would channel his paper's Pulitzer-winning Walter Duranty, who told the world in the 1930s that Josef Stalin's starvation of millions of Ukrainians wasn't happening.

Kristof will surely deny that he's trying to normalize perhaps the most backward Communist country on earth — the two strongest competitors are Cuba and Venezuela, the latter of which has fallen into communist chaos from relatively decent capitalist prosperity in the space of less than two decades. But how else is one supposed to take roughly a dozen admittedly self-censored tweets, many accompanied by pleasant Instagram photos, originating from a country that is a living hell for most of its people?

North Korea can't feed its people, most of whom live lives of horrid subsistence that are impossible for Westerners to imagine surviving. The country's infrastructure and production of energy are so weak that the nation is seen from satellite photos as virtually pitch black at night. Its definition of a luxury car is a 1976 Lincoln Continental like the one which carried Kim Jong Un's father to his final resting place when he died in 2011.

In the midst of all of this, here are some of Kristof's tweeted observations, many accompanied by Instagram photos (which can be seen by clicking on each related link, except for two particularly odious ones seen below), including a critical one indicating that his communist minders really don't need to worry about him, because he knows his limits:

"The Pyongyang skyline here in North Korea. Many more tall buildings since my last visits, but homes still get power cut every day. Some solar panels as a result."
"A mural at a kindergarten I visited today here in North Korea."
NoKoMuralMilitary092917

"Every kid at this North Korea high school supposedly signed up to join the army after the Trump speech to the UN."
"A garment factory in Pyongyang, North Korea; the red sign says that the Supreme Leader, Kim Jong Un, visited that spot."
"... But I have a longstanding policy that as long as I'm in a place like North Korea, I think of my family before I tweet."
And finally (see below), "Lunch in Pyongyang, North Korea, at a pizza restaurant with live music."
Not satisfied with relaying propaganda all by himself, Kristof also amplified the North Korean government's megaphone by retweeting the following nonsense from Times opinion video producer Adam B. Ellick:

A senior North Korean official told us millions have joined the army since Trump's UN comments.
Really now?

In mid-August, the country's military headcount in a nation of 25 million was "in the one million ballpark," and that "another 7.5 million" are "on stand-by or serve in paramilitary units ready for deployment." Another 32 percent of the population, i.e., about 8 million, are either under 15 or over 64. And millions more "joined the army"? (And even if they did, the chances that more than a tiny percentage were genuine volunteers is extremely low.)

The last Kristof item above was too much for T. Becket Adams, who tweeted the following (HT Ed Driscoll at Instapundit):

TBecketAdamsOnKristofPizzaInNoKo092917

Answer: Someone who's apparently trying to outdo Walter Duranty, about 85 years later.

&&&&&

+++++

WashPost Opinion Writer Loses It Over 'Firebrand' Moore's GOP Runoff Victory in Alabama

2017-09-27

The labeling in the press's reaction to Roy Moore's victory over Luther Strange in Alabama's GOP Senate primary runoff Tuesday night has been negative and predictable. The dominant word, seen at both the home page of the New York Times's and at the Associated Press at about 11 p.m. on Tuesday, was "firebrand."

But Washington Post opinion writer Stephen Stromberg went miles over the top in a column at the paper's "Post Partisan" blog published shortly after Moore's victory became assured.

Stromberg didn't limit his venom to the candidate. He also saved part of it for the Republican base (bolds are mine):

Roy Moore wins. The country loses.

Democrats might be tempted to crack a smile at Roy Moore’s Tuesday night victory in Alabama’s GOP Senate primary runoff. The Republican base is so nuts that even President Trump’s late intervention could not persuade GOP primary voters to support sitting Sen. Luther Strange (R-Ala.), who is merely an extreme Trump supporter. Instead, they had to pick one of the most divisive figures in American politics to represent them.
I'm sure it hasn't occurred to Stromberg that former President Barack Obama virtually across-the-board divisiveness dwarfs Moore's. Of course not. "Polarizing" and "divisive" are adjectives reserved for conservatives and Republicans. Oh, and "toxic" and "bombthrower," which are coming up.

Continuing:

... no one should be happy about what occurred Tuesday night.

Moore is still almost certain to beat (Democratic Party nominee) Jones. And, like Trump, Moore would make an unusually toxic addition to Washington. ... Moore touts politics that are raw and identity-based, appealing to those who believe that conservative Christian religious culture should infuse the civic institutions that govern all of us.
Geez, Moore should be right at home at America's colleges and universities, where "identity" seems to be everything. That's sarcasm, folks.

Actually, the "identity" charge is a straw-man argument targeting someone said to strongly follow Biblical principles, the most important of which is that your "identity" as a human being is what is important. Additionally, the belief that "Christian religious culture should infuse" the nation's civic institutions goes back to the nation's Founding Fathers. As Bill Flax noted in a 2012 Forbes column, "The idea that the United States is a ‘Christian nation,’ has always been central to American identity."

In other words, Stromberg hasn't made anything resembling a strong argument yet. He never does, but here's the clinching giveaway to me. It's in the context of Moore's fight to prevent the removal of the Ten Commandments from his Etowah County courtroom, which clearly drives the Post opinion writer crazy, but the sentence he wrote to summarize his views of Moore's actions during this controversy clearly has far broader significance:

Civilized people do not get to decide which court rulings they follow.
Oh really, Stephen? That's hardly been the position liberals have used for conservative rulings they don't like. 

Thanks for letting us know whose side you're really on, Stephen.

Continuing:

When votes will be needed to keep the government open, pass a budget or respond to a natural disaster, Moore is likely to join bomb-throwers such as Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) in threatening counterproductive disruption if the country refuses to bend to his views.
The use of "bombthrowers" is especially rich, considering the Post's and the rest of the media's deliberate downplaying of the far-left antifa violence that actually began before Donald Trump's election in 2016 and has continued unabated in many leftist locales.

As the "Resistance" continues its unhinged campaign of disruption and defiance, Stromberg's third-last sentence is particularly offensive — and that's saying something, giving everything that preceded it:

Roy Moore stands for anarchy, disorder, disunity and conflict.
Cross-posted at BizzyBlog.com.

&&&&&

