+++++

Democrats Sit Back And Let Republicans Struggle With The Roy Moore Scandal

2017-11-09

Republican senators spent Thursday afternoon fielding reporters’ questions about whether they stand behind a man who is accused of sexually assaulting a 14-year-old girl. 

Democratic senators, meanwhile, stepped back and watched the whirlwind consume them.

The Washington Post reported Thursday that four women have said Roy Moore, the GOP’s nominee for senator in Alabama’s special election, sexually pursued them when they were between the ages of 14 and 18 and he was in his 30s.

Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) was one of the only GOP politicians to come out and say, unequivocally, that Moore needs to step aside. Most of his colleagues said that “if” the allegations are true, they would disavow Moore. 

All four women in the Post story were on the record, with their names and photographs in the story. The senators did not say what additional proof they need.

Moore called The Washington Post’s story “fake news” and “intentional defamation.”

Some state politicians and conservative pundits defended Moore. They gave him a pass by claiming that the interactions were consensual and that he didn’t do anything but kiss the 14-year-old girl. (The Washington Post, by the way, reported that Moore did far more to Leigh Corfman than kiss her.) 

Republicans now face some uncomfortable questions: Do they cut ties with Moore? What does the Republican National Committee do with its joint fundraising agreement with Moore? Do they back a write-in campaign for someone else? And does it all get awkward considering the president has also been accused of sexual assault by a number of women?

Democrats were more than happy Thursday to let Republicans deal with this mess on their own. 

The Democratic National Committee and the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee were conspicuously quiet. The campaign of Democrat Doug Jones, Moore’s opponent, put out nothing but a short statement that read: “Roy Moore needs to answer these serious charges.”

The Alabama special election, scheduled for Dec. 12, had already been attracting national attention. Moore was known for being the deeply conservative chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court, where he ordered state probate judges to ignore the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling on marriage equality. 

Over the past few weeks, HuffPost talked to Democrats far from Alabama ― in New York, Washington, D.C. and Alaska ― who all held small-dollar fundraisers for Jones. 

“After Hillary Clinton lost, I told myself I’d do anything I can to make sure the right candidates win,” said Betsy Qualls, who is originally from Alabama but now lives in Alaska.

Kindred Motes, an Alabama native who now lives in New York City, said he was shocked when he heard that Moore, a man who had been twice removed from the bench for flouting the law, could be the state’s next senator. 

“There’s a real groundswell of support for progressive politics in Alabama. It’s just not being covered, and it’s only happening largely in the major cities ... That struck us all as a place where we can have an impact. We can’t be on the ground there, but it doesn’t mean we’re any less Alabamian,” Motes said. 

Democrats acknowledge that even with the new Moore revelations, the race is tough for them in the conservative state. There is still a real chance that Moore will be the next senator. 

There remains a significant amount of debate within the party about whether the national committees should get more involved, and whether such activity would help or hurt Jones. Party officials did not immediately jump in and announce a change of strategy on Thursday.

Democratic senators did, however, start to step up some of their fundraising for Jones. Sens. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Kamala Harris (D-Calif.), Tim Kaine (D-Va.), Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) all sent out or tweeted solicitations for Jones after the scandal broke.

Moore, meanwhile, also sent out an email and used the report that he sexually assaulted a 14-year-old girl to raise money from his supporters. 


&&&&&

+++++

Democrats Find Catharsis A Year After Hillary Clinton’s Loss

2017-11-08

It’s been a good five years or so since Democrats were truly happy on a big election night. 

2016 certainly wasn’t one of those times. Democrats watched in horror as Donald Trump won the presidency, a scenario that many people around the country thought was impossible. And all the talk about potentially retaking the Senate evaporated as Republicans won races that seemed like long shots. 

Most Democrats point to 2012, when Barack Obama was re-elected, as the last happy time. One Democrat reminded HuffPost of 2013, when Terry McAuliffe won the Virginia gubernatorial race, making history as a Democrat able to win in the state despite the same party being in the White House.

Regardless, it’s been a while.

So many Democrats couldn’t believe their eyes Tuesday when they saw the string of blue victories across the country. The party won the gubernatorial race in Virginia by a large margin. It took the governor’s seat in New Jersey away from GOP control. It won far more seats in the Virginia House of Delegates than anyone expected. And it flipped seats and had historic wins elsewhere.

The wins showed the limits of Trump’s brand of politics and validated the thousands of people around the country who joined the resistance after last year’s election. 

And they seemed to provide some redemption for Hillary Clinton, who, in her concession speech, implored her supporters to keep fighting. 

“There is a lot more work still to do, but as anniversaries go, this was something of a catharsis,” said Brian Fallon, who served as the Clinton campaign spokesman. “Republicans like [Virginia gubernatorial candidate] Ed Gillespie made a deliberate choice to put Trumpism on the ballot, making the Democratic success yesterday all the more redemptive. Everyday people are stepping up to run for office and making a statement that they will not let their country be defined by what happened on November 8, 2016, and thank God for that.”

Democrats were worried a Gillespie win would encourage more Republicans to run on a platform like Trump’s. Gillespie played up the nativist rhetoric that pushed Trump to victory in 2016. And the president touted Gillespie’s candidacy, even recording robocalls to boost him.

Between Tuesday’s losses and the defeat of Trump’s preferred candidate in the Alabama Senate GOP primary just over a month ago, the Republican Party ― and the president himself ― is learning the limits of his appeal. 

Trump boasted last year that if he stood in the middle of New York’s Fifth Avenue and shot someone, he still wouldn’t lose any supporters. That twisted scenario may be true (luckily it hasn’t been tested), but it’s clear that Trump at least isn’t invincible. As Tuesday showed, his actions do have consequences, and people who are repulsed by what he does will step up and try to stop him.

Tuesday’s victories were aided in large part by the grassroots movement that formed in the wake of Trump’s win. Those groups have quickly become part of the progressive infrastructure and work closely with the local Democratic parties.

In Virginia, for example, there are more than 180 active Indivisible chapters that made more than 600,000 calls around Tuesday’s elections. 

“The sweeping victories in races that had previously been considered unwinnable show that the progressive movement is an energized, locally led and transformative force,” said Maria Urbina, Indivisible’s political director. “Politicians who fail to stand up against Trump should take notice, because we’re just getting started. A progressive wave is coming, and 2018 is around the corner.”

Women have led the resistance. They mobilized for the Women’s March in January, and a record number of women have been running for public office. 

There were some moments of comeuppance in Tuesday night’s victories. Danica Roem won a seat in the Virginia House of Delegates, becoming the first openly transgender lawmaker in the state’s history. She defeated Del. Bob Marshall (R), who introduced legislation that would have prohibited transgender students from using the bathroom of their choice.

Democrat Ashley Bennett won a seat as a freeholder in Atlantic County, New Jersey. She was inspired to run after seeing a Republican politician joke about whether the Women’s March would be “over in time for them to cook dinner.” That man is the incumbent she defeated Tuesday.



&&&&&

+++++

Donna Brazile Wants To Move On From 2016 Drama And Talk About Hacking

2017-11-07

Donna Brazile’s new book is called “Hacks” and is billed as the “inside story of the break-ins and breakdowns that put Donald Trump in the White House.” The former interim chair of the Democratic National Committee said the whole reason she wrote the book was to draw more attention to the Russian hacking of the organization. 

But so far, no one is really talking about those parts of her book. And that is frustrating her. 

“You probably skipped that whole part ― the part that was the hardest for me to write was the Hacker House,” she said, referring to a chapter about the cybersecurity task force she recruited to address the DNC hacking. 

“In reading what people are focusing on, I’m like, ‘Hm. Why didn’t they focus on what kept me up at night? The hacking. But that’s OK,’” she added in an interview with HuffPost on Tuesday.

What people are focusing on is Brazile’s revelation that Hillary Clinton’s campaign signed a memorandum with the DNC in August 2015, agreeing to infuse it with some much-needed cash in return for increased say in the party’s operations. 

“The funding arrangement with HFA [the Clinton campaign] and the victory fund agreement was not illegal, but it sure looked unethical,” Brazile wrote in her book. “If the fight had been fair, one campaign would not have control of the party before the voters had decided which one they wanted to lead. This was not a criminal act, but as I saw it, it compromised the party’s integrity.”

Part of the reason it’s getting so much attention is that her book’s excerpt in Politico last week ― which was its first preview ― focused on this aspect. 

“I know,” she said, when HuffPost pointed that out. “They went to chapter 10 when they should’ve started on chapter 11. I had no control over that.”

The other reason it’s getting noticed is because, frankly, it seemed like a blockbuster revelation. It was evidence to many that the DNC had indeed tipped the scales for Clinton in the primary over Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.). 

But the picture isn’t as clear as Brazile’s book makes it seem. The agreement Brazile referred to, which NBC News detailed after the Politico excerpt, did say the DNC agreed to hire a communications director from “one of two candidates previously identified as acceptable to HFA” by Sept. 11, 2015. It also said the organization was to choose “between candidates acceptable to HFA” for certain other senior positions.

The memorandum also pertained to the general election and did not preclude the DNC from entering into a similar arrangement with Sanders’ campaign. 

Brazile has backed off slightly from the hard-and-fast language in her book, clarifying in subsequent interviews that she does not believe the primary process was rigged to nominate Clinton. 

“I found no evidence that any of the resources raised [from joint agreement] for the technology used or the staff hired impacted the nominating process at all,” she said Tuesday. “Where I took strong disagreement with them was that I wanted to bring all of the resources back within the party, so that the party could make those decisions, the party could raise its own money.”

But the Clinton campaign didn’t even have the control over the hiring that it ultimately wanted. The DNC did finally hire a new communications director in September 2015, a month after it signed the agreement with the Clinton team. It was long overdue ― the party had been operating without someone in that crucial position for months. 

Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.), who was then DNC chair, chose Luis Miranda for the job. Miranda was not who the Clinton campaign wanted, as The Daily Beast’s Sam Stein reported this week. The move showed that the Clinton campaign, despite the agreement, perhaps didn’t have control over what happened in Wasserman Schultz’s organization. 

When asked why the DNC was able to hire Miranda, despite the agreement, Brazile punted and said she didn’t know because she wasn’t involved. 

“You’ll have to ask Debbie. I was not the chair. I was not involved in any of that decision-making,” she said. (Brazile replaced Wasserman-Schultz in late July of last year.)

“The (DNC) officers were not informed of that memorandum,” she added. “So I had no idea about that memorandum until I kept digging to find out how come I couldn’t spend my money, or how come I couldn’t bring in staff people. When I learned what happened, then my job was to ask HFA to release the DNC from that obligation so that we could manage our own operations.”

Brazile’s book came out at a delicate time for the Democratic Party ― on Election Day, with Democrats nervously waiting to see if they can pull out a win in Virginia’s gubernatorial race. She’s faced a significant amount of backlash from some folks who wonder why she had to unveil the book now, unhappy with the fact that it was reopening intra-party wounds from 2016. 

“Folks are pissed. Pissed at the timing,” said a former DNC staffer. “Pissed that she released this particular excerpt instead of something about Russia attacking our democracy. Pissed that she did not include context that Bernie was offered a JFA [joint fundraising agreement] and just didn’t do anything to help the party.”

In an interview with ABC’s “This Week” on Sunday, Brazile shot back against her critics: “If I released it next year, they would say, Donna, you’re impacting our 2018 [prospects]. ... For those who are telling me to shut up, they told Hillary that a couple of months ago. You know what I tell them, go to hell. I’m going to tell my story.”

“What seems to be lost in talking about my book is the fact that the Democratic National Committee was the victim of a crime,” Brazile concluded in her interview. “And all throughout last year when I was out there trying to warn everybody, trying to say as much as I could say, nobody believed us. Even in doing interviews over the last 24 hours, I’m still sad that nobody still believes that the hacking that took place was serious.”


&&&&&

+++++

Roy Moore’s Son Has a Murky Employment Situation With His Dad’s Foundation

2017-11-02

If you look at Caleb Moore’s resume, his current position is assistant executive director at the Foundation for Moral Law, the organization founded by his father, Alabama GOP Senate candidate Roy Moore. 

He allegedly has been in that position for three years, previously serving as an information systems specialist at the foundation from May 2013 to May 2014. 

But if you ask the foundation, he is not an employee there and hasn’t been one, at least for the past year. 

The Foundation for Moral Law is no doubt a family affair for the Moores. The president of the organization is Kayla, Roy’s wife. The Washington Post reported that the charity has employed at least two of the couple’s four children, although it’s not clear what their compensation was. 

The foundation has been lucrative for Roy Moore. He collected more than $1 million total ― for part-time work ― as president from 2007-2012, which was far more than what the nonprofit disclosed in its tax filings.

Tax experts told The Washington Post that the foundation was suspicious because it may violate tax rules that prohibit the use of a charity for the private benefit of an individual. A board member acknowledged that it is basically run by the former chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court and his family. 

Caleb may be benefiting more from the resume boost rather than a steady paycheck. His resume, found on his LinkedIn page, is dated Feb. 27, 2017. Assistant executive director is his most recent position, from May 2014-present. 

The resume is riddled with grammatical and typographical errors, such as the note that he has assisted in “managing a team of 5 attorneys’, and two office staff employees,” and has “7 years of management experience, including a two-high-level position’s.”

Despite those seven years of management experience, the resume states that he is looking for “entry-level employment.”

“Significant relational and interaction skills, both written, and oral,” Caleb writes on his resume. “Constantly aware of current Alabama Law; both Criminal and Civil Procedure. Also as a part-time contractor; I stay up-to-date with OSHA compliance. Business- professional competitive disposition with a prominence of gaining knowledge and experience in every aspect of the work place.”

Caleb’s LinkedIn page, however, has a different title: legal administrative assistant, a position he says he’s had since May 2013. 

In its 2012 tax filing, the Foundation for Moral Law listed Caleb as the executive director and secretary for part of the year, although it said he received no compensation. 

In a 2015 interview, Caleb denied ever holding that job. 

“I work in the ministry,” Caleb said. “I’m part of the foundation. Matthew Kidd is the executive director. My mother (Kayla Moore) is the president. I do work there. I basically draft letters. I’m also going to school. I’m taking classes from Troy online. I’m two classes short of a bachelor’s degree.”

Caleb’s resume says he graduated high school in 2009 and is currently in the process of getting his college degree. 

But Jessica Deem, the executive assistant at FML, told HuffPost that despite Caleb’s resume, he does not work at the organization. 

“Since I’ve been here [about a year], he’s had odd jobs here, but nothing permanent. He helps out from time to time, but that’s it,” she said. 

Deem also confirmed that Caleb has received compensation from FML: “He’s gotten paid from our foundation, yes, he has. He was on our payroll, but it wasn’t as an executive director.”

She didn’t have the exact dates of when he was on the payroll, asking HuffPost to email her so she could forward the request and get more details. The foundation never provided any additional response on Caleb’s employment. 

Neither Caleb Moore nor Roy Moore’s Senate campaign returned a request for comment. 

Caleb has also attracted extra attention not for his work at the foundation, but for his multiple arrests. Most recently, on Oct. 10, he was charged with third-degree criminal trespassing. It was related to his November 2016 arrest for hunting without permission.  

Caleb has been arrested nine times, including for driving under the influence, drug-related charges and domestic violence. After one of his arrests in 2015, he wrote a Facebook post going after “crooked police officers and critics of my dad” who want to “not only destroy his career for what he stands for but will go as far as trying to destroy his family.”

Caleb has also reportedly tweeted offensive and controversial comments, such as referring to his friends as “niggas” and saying he agrees with his dad on ”#nohomos” and ”#traditionalmarriage.” 

After the LGBTQ blog Joe.My.God published some of Caleb’s tweets, he made his Twitter account private. 

“I was getting tired of homosexuals messaging me and saying things,” he told AL.com in 2015, also seeming to suggest that someone had gotten hold of his account and sent some of the messages without his permission. 

Roy Moore has made a national name for himself with his conservative stance on social issues and has been an outspoken opponent of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender rights. As chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court, he instructed state probate judges to ignore a U.S. Supreme Court ruling declaring marriage equality the law of the land. 

He is running against Democrat Doug Jones in the special election, which will take place Dec. 12. Moore defeated the GOP establishment pick, Sen. Luther Strange (R-Ala.), in the primary.



&&&&&

+++++

Trump Nominee Wants To Keep Agency Now That He’d Get Paid To Run It

2017-11-01

WASHINGTON ― As a Republican congressman from New Jersey, Scott Garrett took to the floor of the House in 2015 and lambasted the Export-Import Bank as an institution that “embodies the corruption of the free enterprise system.” He consistently opposed the reauthorization of the bank and wanted to shutter it.

Now, he wants to run it. 

Garrett lost his re-election bid in 2016 ― in large part because he lost the backing of financial institutions after he made anti-gay remarks. In April, President Donald Trump announced his intent to nominate him to lead the institution that helps finance U.S. exports. 

Trump’s pick has split many traditional GOP allies, with groups like the U.S. Chamber of Commerce opposing Garrett’s confirmation. 

Now that he needs a new job and wants to run the bank, Garrett is trying to reassure everyone that he supports it. 

“Let me be crystal clear on this point: If I am confirmed, the Export-Import Bank will continue to fully operate, point-blank,” Garrett told the Senate banking committee Wednesday morning. 

But what Garrett was less clear about was why he changed his mind. Democratic senators repeatedly pressed Garrett on why they should believe he’s now sincere. 

“It seems to me what’s changed is you’ve been offered this good-paying job to run the Export-Import Bank, not the change of the Export-Import Bank, but perhaps the change of your situation,” Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) said. 

“I believe in this bank, and I’m not sure you do,” added Sen. Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.), who was frustrated that Garrett refused to say he was wrong in his previous denunciations of the agency. 

“Will you admit now that your crusade to kill the bank was a mistake?” asked Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.). 

Garrett, again, refused to do so. 

While Democratic senators were the ones who mainly pressed Garrett on this point, Sen. Tim Scott (R-S.C.) did so as well.

“The reason for the change is perhaps more important than the change,” he said.

Garrett never really gave a policy explanation for why he shifted on the bank. His reversal came down to two main reasons: Trump is president, and he now wants to run the bank.

“Senator, if the question is, what has changed since 2015, what we have seen changed is a new administration,” Garrett told Brown. “What we have seen change is a new agenda by this administration to see to it that the economy actually grows, and that businesses are given a fair chance to grow their businesses both nationally and internationally as well. That is a significant change since 2015.”

Later, Garrett also told Scott, “My role has changed. I am not in a legislative function.”

“I commit ... to carry out the letter of the law as established by Congress,” he added.

In 2015, Garrett told fellow Republicans in a closed-door meeting that he wouldn’t pay his dues to the National Republican Congressional Committee because the organization supported some gay candidates.

Garrett later clarified that he didn’t oppose gay people running for office, but he believed the GOP should not support candidates who back same-sex marriage. His comments cost him support from Wall Street donors, who had been a major source of funding for his previous campaigns.



&&&&&

+++++

Trump Clams Up When Asked If He’ll Pardon Paul Manafort

2017-10-31

WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump refused to answer a question Tuesday about whether he would be willing to pardon his disgraced campaign manager, clamming up and indicating he was done talking to the press. 

“Are you going to pardon [Paul] Manafort?” asked HuffPost reporter Shirish Dáte after Trump had a meeting at the White House with business leaders.

“Thank you,” Trump replied, indicating he was no longer going to take any questions from reporters.

Prior to Dáte’s question, Trump had answered a question about phasing in corporate tax rate reductions.

On Monday, Manafort and his business associate, along with a former Trump campaign adviser, were indicted in special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russia’s role in the 2016 election. Manafort faces 12 counts, including charges of money laundering and conspiracy. 

Manafort served as Trump’s campaign manager for three months, including during the Republican convention.

White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders also declined to rule out pardons for Manafort and his business partner, Rick Gates, during Monday’s briefing.

“I haven’t had any conversations with him about that. I think we should let the process play through before we start looking at those steps,” she said. 

The White House has tried to downplay the indictments, arguing that much (but not all) of the charges against Manafort and Gates dealt with their lobbying work before the campaign. 

A potentially more problematic indictment is the third one, against George Papadopoulos, who served as a foreign policy adviser. 

The Papadopoulos charges, dated Oct. 5 but only unsealed on Monday, deal directly with his work during the election and his attempt to link up the Russian government with the Trump campaign. His statements also make clear that he was acting with the involvement of higher-ranking officials in Trump’s orbit. He has also been cooperating with investigators for months. 

Speculation about whether Trump will pardon his associates ― and possibly fire Mueller in order to get the investigation to stop ― has picked up in recent days. In The Wall Street Journal, for example, two conservative lawyer urged Trump to issue a blanket pardon, saying the Russia matter should not be taken up by a special counsel: 

Mr. Mueller’s investigation has been widely interpreted as partisan from the start. Mr. Trump’s opponents instantaneously started talking of impeachment—never mind that a special counsel, unlike an independent counsel, has no authority to release a report to Congress or the public. Mr. Trump’s supporters count the number of Democratic donors on the special-counsel staff. The Mueller investigation is fostering tremendous bitterness among Trump voters, who see it as an effort by Washington mandarins to nullify their votes.

Mr. Trump can end this madness by immediately issuing a blanket presidential pardon to anyone involved in supposed collusion with Russia or Russians during the 2016 presidential campaign, to anyone involved with Russian acquisition of an American uranium company during the Obama administration, and to anyone for any offense that has been investigated by Mr. Mueller’s office. Political weaponization of criminal law should give way to a politically accountable democratic process. Nefarious Russian activities, including possible interference in U.S. elections, can and should be investigated by Congress.



&&&&&

+++++

Trump Often Says He Has Proof For His Claims. But He Never Comes Through.

2017-10-28

One of the most stunning parts of the White House’s debacle over Donald Trump’s recent call to a Gold Star family was how it caught both the president and the chief of staff in outright lies. 

White House Chief of Staff John Kelly told a story to discredit a congresswoman that turned out to be completely fabricated, as video from the event later showed. 

Trump, who was mad that Rep. Frederica Wilson (D-Fla.) said he insulted a fallen soldier’s widow during a condolence call by telling her that her husband “knew what he signed up for.” Trump tweeted that Wilson was lying ― and he had the goods to back up his claim.

Trump did not have any proof. Even the White House later admitted that there was no recording of the call. And both the mother and widow of Sgt. La David Johnson eventually said Wilson was accurate in her recounting of what happened.

This situation played out pretty typically for Trump: He makes a claim, he says he has proof and but then he never produces the aforementioned proof. 

This situation goes beyond simply saying something untrue. Trump also does that all the time ― such as saying that “thousands” of people in New Jersey, primarily Muslim Americans, were cheering as the World Trade Center towers fell on Sept. 11, or that he lost the popular vote to Hillary Clinton because millions of undocumented immigrants cast ballots. 

Below are some examples when Trump has not only made a wild claim, but also has promised to provide evidence ― which never came through: 

Birther Conspiracy: “I have people that actually have been studying it and they cannot believe what they’re finding,” Trump said in 2011, stating that he sent investigators to Hawaii to look into whether President Barack Obama was born in the United States. 

Conversations With James Comey: In May, Trump tried to scare James Comey, upset that the then-FBI director would not stop the Russia investigation and pledge his loyalty to him. He hinted that he may have recordings of their conversations.

Trump later admitted he had no such tapes.

Russian Election Interference: Trump was long skeptical of the intelligence community’s conclusion that Russia interfered in the 2016 election and in December, he hinted that he had secret information that could disprove its analysis: “I know a lot about hacking. And hacking is a very hard thing to prove. So it could be somebody else. And I also know things that other people don’t know, and so they cannot be sure of the situation ... You’ll find out on Tuesday or Wednesday.” Nothing ever came of that promise. 

Allegations Of Assault: At least a dozen women have accused Trump of sexual misconduct. He has denied all of their allegations, even insulting their physical appearance and saying he didn’t find them attractive enough to assault. Last year, Trump also said he would provide evidence to show his innocence: “We already have substantial evidence to dispute these lies, and it will be made public in an appropriate way and at an appropriate time — very soon.” Trump has never produced anything, and the White House continues to say the women are lying. 

Iraq War Opposition: During the campaign, Trump repeatedly claimed that he had opposed the Iraq invasion. He even said that if journalists simply searched old news articles, they’d find public statements to back him up. “If you look at 2003, there are articles. If you look at 2004, there are articles,” he said in February 2016. No one has been able to find public statements from Trump before the invasion saying he opposed it. 


&&&&&

+++++

Leon Wieseltier’s New Magazine Is The Latest Casualty In Reckoning Over Bad Male Behavior

2017-10-24

Laurene Powell Jobs has pulled out of her partnership with Leon Wieseltier for his new publication, leaving the former literary editor at The New Republic without his major financial backer.

“Upon receiving information related to past inappropriate workplace conduct, Emerson Collective ended its business relationship with Leon Wieseltier, including a journal planned for publication under his editorial direction,” Emerson Collective said in a statement to HuffPost. “The production and distribution of the journal has been suspended.”

“For my offenses against some of my colleagues in the past I offer a shaken apology and ask for their forgiveness,” Wieseltier said in a statement to Politico, which first reported the news. “The women with whom I worked are smart and good people. I am ashamed to know that I made any of them feel demeaned and disrespected. I assure them that I will not waste this reckoning.”

“And I am profoundly sorry to my extraordinary collaborators at the journal we began together that the misdeeds of my past have made it impossible to go forward,” he continued. “My gratitude to them is boundless.”

Wieseltier did not offer specific details, but his announcement came after several female journalists who previously worked at The New Republic began anonymously sharing stories over email about past behavior by Wieseltier that had made them feel uncomfortable.

Public plans for Wieseltier’s new journal were vague, but New York magazine reported that it planned to “discuss the effects of technology on our lives and think critically about it,” among other things.

Jobs, the widow of Apple co-founder Steve Jobs, was friends with Wieseltier ― which makes her withdrawal all the more notable. Wieseltier helped Jobs and her organization, Emerson Collective, become more interested in investing in journalistic publications. She also recently struck a deal for a majority stake in The Atlantic.

“It was a friend of many of us here, Leon Wieseltier, who first put me onto the possibility that Laurene might come to love The Atlantic as I have,” Atlantic Media Chairman David Bradley wrote in a memo to staff in July. “For its part, Emerson Collective had begun to invest in serious journalism for its own sake. And, as to Laurene personally, Leon said, ‘If she were to take an interest in The Atlantic, it would be for all the right reasons.’”


&&&&&

+++++

How Betsy DeVos Became The Most Hated Cabinet Secretary

2017-10-24

WASHINGTON ― Cabinet secretaries are rarely household names. For every Colin Powell and Hillary Clinton, there are 10 Ann Venemans and Anthony Foxxes. If an official does gain wider name recognition, it’s usually someone in a higher position like the attorney general or secretary of state.

Under President Donald Trump, however, something different is happening: Everyone hates the education secretary, the person who is 16th in line to the presidency and controls only 3 percent of the federal budget.

Lawmakers and activists say they’ve heard more about Betsy DeVos than any other Cabinet secretary ever ― often from people who aren’t usually politically engaged.

“All the time,” said Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.). “This is true in town halls, when I’m walking down the sidewalk in my neighborhood, when I go into the grocery store. People come up to me to talk about Betsy DeVos. There’s just no comparison. I’ve never had this happen with any other Cabinet secretary.”

“There is no one in America more unpopular than Betsy DeVos,” said Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.). “To have somebody who scorns public education, who never went to a public school, her children never went to a public school... to be in charge of public education is an outrage.”

A HuffPost/YouGov poll conducted Oct. 9-10 found that, indeed, DeVos is Trump’s most unpopular Cabinet official, alongside Jeff Sessions, the much more visible attorney general. DeVos and Sessions both have a 42 percent unfavorability rating in that poll. When asked which Cabinet members are doing a “bad job,” 32 percent of respondents picked Sessions and 32 percent picked DeVos. Thirty-seven percent of respondents said DeVos is doing a worse job than her predecessors, with just 20 percent saying she’s doing better and 12 percent saying she’s doing about the same. 


A recent Morning Consult/Politico poll had similar results: DeVos was Trump’s most unpopular Cabinet secretary, with a net favorability rating of -12 percent, followed by Sessions, who was at -4 percent.

And in June, New York Times columnist Gail Collins conducted a reader poll for worst Trump Cabinet member. DeVos won.

DeVos is now a household name for many Democrats ― so much so that she has essentially become a new boogeyman for 2018. Democratic candidates nationwide are mentioning her in their fundraising emails. 

A Democratic operative who works on Senate races said that emails and communications about DeVos “tend to perform very strongly.”

Democratic groups certainly mounted a determined campaign against DeVos’ confirmation, and they continue to hammer her today. But they did that for a number of nominees, most of whom didn’t become as despised as the education secretary. What’s so different about DeVos?

In the Trump Cabinet, it turns out, you can more or less get away with being a plutocrat, a dilettante or a saboteur hostile to the very mission of the agency you mean to lead. You just can’t get away with being all three at once.

The Department of Education did not respond to HuffPost’s requests for comment.

A Disastrous Confirmation Hearing

Spend any time talking to people about DeVos, and what you’ll hear over and over is that she has no experience in public education. She never went to public school, never sent her kids to public school and never worked in a public school. (She did volunteer in one, however.)

What DeVos had was political connections, thanks to her family’s fortune. She’s a billionaire, the daughter-in-law of the co-founder of Amway, the multilevel marketing corporation. She’s long been active in the Michigan Republican Party and is a major donor.

“My family is the biggest contributor of soft money to the Republican National Committee,” she wrote in Roll Call in 1997. “I have decided to stop taking offense at the suggestion that we are buying influence. Now I simply concede the point. They are right. We do expect something in return. We expect to foster a conservative governing philosophy consisting of limited government and respect for traditional American virtues. We expect a return on our investment.”

DeVos’ driving cause has been “school choice.” In Michigan, she led the push to use public dollars to pay for private school tuition through vouchers and other means. That experiment has been a success for banks and hedge funds, and a resounding failure for many students. A 2016 report by the Education Trust-Midwest, a nonprofit, concluded that under the model shaped by DeVos, “Michigan’s K-12 system is among the weakest in the country and getting worse. In little more than a decade, Michigan has gone from being a fairly average state in elementary reading and math achievement to the bottom 10 states. It’s a devastating fall.” 

DeVos wasn’t an education expert. She was, as The Washington Post pointed out, essentially a lobbyist who used her money to push an agenda that didn’t have much evidence of success to back it up. Her defenders, however, say she is a passionate advocate of returning control of education to parents, so that they can decide how their money is used. She has used her money to commit herself to education, these defenders say, and she’s dedicated to helping children.

Democrats and education experts in certain circles knew about DeVos before Trump nominated her for education secretary. But she wasn’t widely recognizable ― until her confirmation hearing, that is.

DeVos’ performance at her January hearing may have been one of the worst ever for a Cabinet nominee. She didn’t know about a key federal law that protects students with disabilities. She tried to argue that guns may be acceptable in schools, saying a school out West, for example, might need to protect against grizzly bears. She confused two different ways to measure student achievement — by proficiency or by growth — even though they’re hot topics of debate in education circles. And she refused to commit to enforcing federal regulations meant to protect student borrowers from programs that leave them buried in debt with few employable skills.

“She seemed to know very little about public education,” said Sen. Al Franken (D-Minn.), who was a member of the committee that questioned DeVos. “And of course, her office is one where someone should know an incredible amount about public education.”

DeVos’ disastrous performance translated to internet gold for the activists opposing her. Clips of DeVos struggling to answer questions from Democratic senators quickly went viral. 

“To be honest, she just did all the work for us at the hearing,” said one Democratic congressional staffer who requested anonymity to speak openly. “She was so good at explaining how unqualified she was for the job.”

Franken was the one who questioned DeVos about the difference between the “proficiency” and “growth” approaches to measuring student achievement ― a difference that DeVos eventually admitted she didn’t know about.

“In the aftermath of her hearing, I did hear a tremendous amount about my questioning of her and the whole hearing in general,” Franken said.

About a week after the hearing, Franken was out to dinner with former Vice President Walter Mondale at a restaurant in Minneapolis. Mondale took the senator to the back of the restaurant to meet the staff.

“There was a guy who was carrying plates to wash, and he just said to me, ‘Thanks for your questions to DeVos. Please vote against her,’” Franken said. “This wasn’t someone who was a member of the teachers’ union, at least as far as I can tell. He was working in the kitchen. That happened a lot. It was people from all walks of life who were just taken with how bad that hearing was.”

Josh Nelson is deputy political director at the progressive activist group Credo, which mobilized against DeVos’ nomination. His group has done thousands of petitions over the past decade, but they’ve never seen anything like the response to DeVos.

“CREDO has fought to block the confirmation of more than a dozen Trump nominees and the campaign opposing Betsy DeVos resonated with our members more than any of the others,” Nelson said in an email. “Our petition generated 1,500,000 signatures ― far more than any other petition we have ever run... We believe it was the largest petition opposing a cabinet nominee in U.S. history.”

Their members also made more than 100,000 phone calls to Senate offices, working closely with unions ― the American Federation of Teachers and the National Education Association ― and other progressive groups. NEA said that in just one month, it sent more than 1.2 million emails and made more than 40,000 phone calls concerning DeVos’ confirmation.

Parents and teachers are highly networked. They organize school concerts, field trips, bake sales and all sorts of other events on a daily basis. As it turns out, they can also organize opposition to a Cabinet secretary. 

“We’ve never had an outpouring like that,” said NEA President Lily Eskelsen Garcia. “And by the way, those weren’t all our members.”

NEA members posted messages to Facebook urging others to oppose DeVos, Eskelsen Garcia said, and then “they called their friends and neighbors, they organized their church groups. They got a lot of parents and community folks to make those phone calls too.”

Some people have wondered whether DeVos has taken extra heat because she’s a woman ― one of just two in Trump’s Cabinet. Meghan McCain, author and daughter of Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), said she found the backlash to DeVos “a little sexist.”

Thurston Domina, an associate professor of education policy at the University of North Carolina, told NPR that DeVos is “no more clueless or ideologically awful than some other appointees, but we have a cultural role for a man who’s sort of a cowboy and comes in.” Because of this double standard, Domina said, DeVos comes off looking like a “lady who lunches.” 

Eskelsen Garcia, the first female president of the NEA in 25 years, rejected the idea that DeVos is facing greater opposition because of her gender.

“Betsy DeVos is unpopular because of her policies,” she said. “Any attempt to make her somehow the victim of some kind of discrimination herself is absolutely not supported by anything I’ve ever seen.”

DeVos isn’t the first female education secretary ― that was Shirley Hufstedler, who held that position during the Carter administration. Most recently, Margaret Spellings served as education secretary from 2005 to 2009. Over the years, AFT has clashed with plenty of government officials ― including those in Democratic administrations. But there was a key difference, said Randi Weingarten, the union’s president: “There was always a common ground... about public education. They didn’t actively try to kill what is foundational to democracy.”

Republicans Speak Out Against DeVos

DeVos, of course, did end up getting confirmed. But the circumstances were embarrassing: Vice President Mike Pence had to break the tie, giving her the smallest margin of confirmation ever.

Pence had to cast a vote in his role as president of the Senate because two Republican senators ― Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska ― decided to join with a united Democratic caucus in opposing DeVos’ confirmation.

In a speech announcing her opposition, Collins expressed her surprise at DeVos’ unfamiliarity with the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, which had flummoxed the nominee during her hearing. Ultimately, Collins said, an education secretary needs to support strengthening public education.

“The mission of the Department of Education is broad, but supporting public education is at its core,” she said. “I am concerned that Mrs. DeVos’ lack of experience with public schools will make it difficult for her to fully understand, identify, and assist with those challenges, particularly for our rural schools in states like Maine.”

Murkowski, like Collins, is from a rural state and said she was concerned that DeVos wasn’t fully committed to helping students “who are not able to access an alternative choice in education as in so many of my communities.”

Also key to Murkowski’s opposition, she said, was the outpouring of disapproval from Alaskans.

“I have heard from thousands ― truly thousands of Alaskans who have shared their concerns about Mrs. DeVos as secretary of education,” she said in a speech on the Senate floor. “They’ve contacted me by phone, by email, in person. Their concerns center, as mine do, on Mrs. DeVos’ lack of experience with public education and the lack of knowledge she portrayed at her confirmation hearing.”

Alyse Galvin, a founding member of Great Alaska Schools, was a major spearhead of that opposition, which targeted both of the state’s senators. She and other education advocates in Alaska organized a “Betsy DeVos Tie-Breaker Telethon” on Facebook Live, urging people to call them and give their thoughts about DeVos. They then displayed the results and noted where they were coming from.

“It was a really obvious visual reminder to people about where Alaskans stood with DeVos,” Galvin said. The top reason people said they opposed DeVos was because of her lack of experience in public education.

“Every teacher ― and I would say a lot of parents ― know the name ‘Betsy DeVos,’” Galvin said. “And I would say most people in the nation, up until this year, have never known who their education secretary is... We’ve trusted that it’s going to work. When word got around that this person has never even set foot really as an educator in public education, there was no doubt that people were going to start paying attention.”

Republicans who oppose DeVos say it’s not against the party’s philosophy to support public education. Indeed, the vast majority of Americans send their children to public schools, and for the most part, people are happy with their local schools.

Ginny Evans is a high school teacher in a Dallas suburb and a member of the NEA. She voted for Trump.

“School choice is, to me... whether I’m going to have my child go to [public] school in Plano or go to school in Lewisville,” she said. “It’s not charter schools. I’m going to keep our dollars in public education. And there is no way our most vulnerable ― our special education kids ― there is no way they can even get the quality education that they deserve in a charter school. There’s not enough there.”  

David Kinsella is a high school teacher in Prince William County, Virginia, who identifies as a moderate Republican (he didn’t vote for Trump). He, too, is a member of the NEA, and he said he doesn’t like that DeVos seems more interested in helping the “charter school industry” than helping public schools and the students who attend them. He noted that in many places, like Virginia, there isn’t much demand for charter schools. A genuinely conservative approach, he said, would be to respect those choices rather than pushing charter schools on communities.

“We’ve always had a history of supporting public schools,” he said. “I don’t know why suddenly we all have to change because Betsy DeVos arrives on the scene. All Republicans [aren’t] going to change their philosophy and say, ‘OK! Out with public schools. Let’s bring in the private charter schools and let’s help that industry and help them get ahead.’”

Pushing Forward In Office

DeVos may be in office, but the opposition to her hasn’t stopped.  

Just days after her confirmation in early February, she decided to visit a middle school in Washington, D.C. She encountered protesters, who shouted “Shame!” and forced her to retreat to her car with her security detail. 

“I respect peaceful protest and I will not be deterred in executing the vital mission of the Department of Education,” DeVos later said. “No school door in America will be blocked from those seeking to help our nation’s schoolchildren.”

Since then, DeVos has consistently faced protests. 

One of the most notable protests occurred in May at Bethune-Cookman University, a historically black college in Daytona Beach, Florida. Students booed DeVos, who was giving a commencement address, and about half of the graduating students turned their backs on her.

Dominik Whitehead, a BCU graduate, was the lead organizer. He decided to do something about DeVos’ appearance at his alma mater after hearing that she had co-opted HBCUs for her own agenda, saying historically black schools were pioneers of ”school choice.” In reality, HBCUs were a response to Jim Crow laws that barred African-Americans from attending white schools. In other words, they didn’t really have much choice.

Ultimately Whitehead organized more than 60,000 people to sign online petitions objecting to DeVos’ speech.

DeVos has aggressively pushed her agenda since taking office, even though she had little support for her confirmation.

“You’d think that someone who came in in that manner would tiptoe carefully and adopt a listening posture and move with some humility,” said the congressional staffer. “We just haven’t seen that. She’s been gangbusters on a lot of things, particularly on our rolling back all sets of protections for students.”

After reportedly putting up an initial resistance, DeVos went along with the Trump administration’s decision to rescind protections for transgender students that allowed them to use the restroom that best corresponded to their gender identity.

DeVos rescinded Obama administration rules on how colleges should handle sexual assault, leaving advocates worried that the move could help shield those who have been accused. She withdrew consumer protections for student loan borrowers and reinstated heavy fees for some borrowers who default.

And in April, DeVos hired a woman to head the Office for Civil Rights who once claimed she’d experienced discrimination in college for being white.

“What she’s been effective in is creating a platform for herself and for her colleagues that now, people have to fight against,” Weingarten said. “So instead of taking the tremendous energy and aspiration and the hope and glow in the aftermath of changing No Child Left Behind and rolling up our sleeves to focus on teaching and learning, we’re back in the school wars. How is that fair to kids?”

“It’s breathtaking,” Warren said. “She doesn’t even pretend that she’s working for students... She has filled the room with for-profit college hacks and has clearly picked their side over and over. She’s been very effective at rolling back rules that were in place to try to get some accountability with the for-profit colleges.”

The fight has continued to energize activists and union members.

“We have never seen more energy than we’re seeing right now,” Eskelsen Garcia said. “We have actually had our phones ringing off the hooks. The increased activism of our members and parents and community leaders saying, ‘Put me in, Coach. What can I do to fight this horrible agenda of this secretary of education?’ We’ve never seen anyone in charge of public education and protecting students be so remiss in their job.”

“It’s awoken an activism by a lot of people who weren’t active before,” Weingarten said.

Warren has kept an eye on DeVos with a project called DeVos Watch. The oversight campaign focuses on how DeVos’ work affects student loan borrowers. Over the summer, Warren had a victory when she teamed up with Sen. Roy Blunt (R-Mo.) to stop the Department of Education from giving management of the entire $1.2 trillion federal student loan portfolio to just one company, rather than the nine companies that currently manage it.

“You’d have a completely non-competitive market for the student loan serving and a too-big-to-fail company, making, I should say, hundreds of millions of dollars,” Warren said. “This is big money. And she just announced that this is how she’s going to do it.”

DeVos backed off from her plan after Blunt and Warren introduced their legislation.

“Change is possible. I’ve seen it. I’ve seen it even with Betsy DeVos,” Warren said. “But you don’t get what you don’t fight for. And that’s why it’s important to be in these fights.”

DeVos is still moving forward where she can. Last week, she rescinded 72 documents that were intended to provide clarity about students’ rights and how schools can use federal money. The Education Department determined the documents were unnecessary.

One of the key federal laws they provided guidance on? The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act ― which DeVos hadn’t heard of at her hearing just a few months ago.


&&&&&

+++++

White House: It’s ‘Highly Inappropriate’ For Journalists To Criticize A General

2017-10-20

WASHINGTON ― White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told reporters Friday that it would be “highly inappropriate” for them to question chief of staff John Kelly because he served in the military as a general.

“If you want to go after Gen. Kelly, that is up to you,” she said. “If you want to get into a debate with a four-star Marine general, I think that is something highly inappropriate.”

The controversy arose over Kelly’s appearance at the press podium on Thursday, when he went after Rep. Frederica Wilson (D-Fla.). Wilson said she heard President Donald Trump’s condolence call to the widow of Sgt. La David Johnson, who died in a combat operation in Niger. Wilson was appalled at what Trump said: that Johnson “must’ve known what he signed up for” when he enlisted in the military.

The White House, including Trump, tried to cast Wilson as a liar. 

Johnson’s mother, however, backed the congresswoman up and said, “President Trump did disrespect my son and my daughter and also me and my husband.” 

The White House then shifted tactics, saying the congresswoman ― who is a close friend of the family ― shouldn’t have been listening in on the call anyway. Kelly then went after her as a publicity hound. To illustrate his point, he recounted an event in April 2015, when he went to the dedication of an FBI field office in Miami, which was being named after two agents who had died on the job: 

And a congresswoman stood up, and in a long tradition of empty barrels making the most noise, stood up there in all of that and talked about how she was instrumental in getting the funding for that building, and how she took care of her constituents because she got the money, and she just called up President Obama, and on that phone call, he gave the money, the $20 million, to build the building, and she sat down. And we were stunned, stunned that she’d done it. Even for someone that is that empty a barrel, we were stunned.
Kelly, either intentionally or not, fabricated what happened. His story is simply not true, as video from the event later showed. Wilson did not brag about getting money for the building (because she wasn’t in Congress when the funds were allocated), and she didn’t make the event all about herself. 

The only reason Kelly’s lies were exposed was because journalists did their job and looked at the veracity of what a powerful person said. That’s what a free press does. 

But the Trump administration thinks that should stop. When a reporter asked Sanders Friday why Trump tweeted about Wilson again, the press secretary criticized reporters for continuing to talk about this story. She said reporters should have let Kelly have the final word and dropped the matter.

“Just to finish on the rest of your question of why the president felt the need to respond, it’s because it should have ended yesterday after General Kelly’s comments. But it didn’t,” she said. “It continued, and it’s still continuing today. It’s still the bulk of the coverage on most every TV you turn on and most every newspaper that you open up today.”

Kelly is a retired four-star Marine general. But that fact is irrelevant to whether journalists are allowed to question and criticize him. The military does not run the country.

But under Trump ― who never served in the military ― generals have been given increased control and the military has taken a more central role. Early on, Trump decided to nominate retired Gen. Jim Mattis for the role of defense secretary. Traditionally, presidents choose civilians for that position. Mattis had to receive a waiver to be confirmed because he retired less than seven years ago.

Trump also considered having a showy display of military might during his inaugural parade. 

With Kelly serving as chief of staff, that trend continues. At Thursday’s press briefing, Kelly asked journalists if any of them knew anyone who had died serving in combat. If they did, they were entitled to ask him a question. 

“Is anyone here a Gold Star parent or sibling? Does anyone here know a Gold Star parent or sibling? OK. You get the question,” he said pointing to a man who indicated he did. 

As New Yorker writer Masha Gessen wrote Friday, “This was a new twist on the Trump Administration’s technique of shunning and shaming unfriendly members of the news media, except this time, it was framed explicitly in terms of national loyalty. As if on cue, the first reporter allowed to speak inserted the phrase ‘Semper Fi’—a literal loyalty oath—into his question.”

“It stuns me that a member of Congress would have listened in on that conversation, absolutely stuns me. And I thought at least that was sacred,” Kelly added on Thursday, essentially saying that a civilian shouldn’t have the right to even hear a conversation dealing with military matters because in Trump’s America, she isn’t worthy. 

UPDATE, 8:50 p.m. ― Sanders attempted to clarify her remarks in a statement Friday evening. 



&&&&&

