+++++

It Sure Seems Like Paul Manafort Is Misleading A Federal Judge So He Can Winter In Florida

2017-11-09

WASHINGTON ― A lawyer for Paul Manafort, the former Donald Trump campaign manager who was indicted on federal charges last week, told a judge on Monday that Manafort is working with a company in Florida that’s developing secure, “virtually indestructible” cellphones. But the owner of Hoyos Integrity ― the telecommunications company that Manafort’s lawyer appears to have been referring to ― told HuffPost that Manafort hasn’t been associated with the business for months.

Manafort, who surrendered to the FBI last week after he was indicted on 12 federal charges, is currently on house arrest in Virginia with a GPS monitor on his left ankle. He’s trying to reach a bail agreement with prosecutors working for special counsel Robert Mueller that could relax some of his pretrial conditions. Manafort is hoping he’ll be able to travel to New York and Florida, where he also has homes.

As an international consultant, he’s got a pretty decent business excuse for traveling to New York, which is where he sees clients. But finding a business-related reason to convince a judge to allow Manafort to travel to Florida ― where it was 83 degrees and sunny on Thursday ― is a bit tricky.

Kevin Downing, Manafort’s attorney, told U.S. District Court Judge Amy Berman Jackson at a hearing about bail on Monday that Manafort needed to travel to Florida because he does “quite a bit of work” in Fort Lauderdale. There, Downing said, Manafort has “got a business” that is “developing secure cellphones” that are “relatively or virtually indestructible.”

Downing hasn’t responded to multiple requests from HuffPost for additional details on the business. But the company he was referring to appears to be Hoyos Integrity, which is run by Manafort’s longtime friend Hector Hoyos.

Hoyos Integrity matches up with the details of the company described in court. It has an office in Fort Lauderdale. It says it’s developing a “complete secure smartphone” that is “impenetrable” and “impervious to hacking.” Manafort was affiliated with a previous iteration of the company, and was temporarily listed as director earlier this year, as Politico reported in June. A business report for that company, filed before it morphed into Hoyos Integrity, lists Manafort’s name as director alongside the names of Hoyos Integrity’s current CEO, general counsel, chief financial officer and senior vice president of engineering.  

Here’s the problem: Manafort’s friend Hector Hoyos, executive chairman and chief technology officer of Hoyos Integrity, says Manafort hasn’t been associated with the company in months. Hoyos said he has “no idea” what Manafort’s lawyer was referring to in court on Monday.

“Insofar as my company is concerned, Hoyos Integrity, he was a consultant of ours, but he’s not any longer,” Hoyos told HuffPost. “He has no relationship with us in any way, shape or form.”

There are a couple of other possible explanations for the claim Downing made in court. Maybe, while under a federal investigation that included a no-knock raid on his home, Manafort was able to form his own company, also based in Fort Lauderdale, that did basically the same thing as Hoyos Integrity, all without leaving a paper trail. Or maybe another Fort Lauderdale-based company that was also working on secure, virtually indestructible cellphones decided it would be a good idea to hire a man who was under federal investigation.

The second possibility, in fact, isn’t completely implausible. Both Hoyos and Frank Tobin, the CEO of Hoyos Integrity, told HuffPost that there might be other companies in Fort Lauderdale working on secure phones. There used to be a Motorola facility nearby.

“Google is there, a lot of companies are there,” Hoyos said.

“I’m sure there’s probably some more in Fort Lauderdale,” Tobin said.

But neither man knew anything about Manafort working for other companies. “Paul has a lot of different businesses, and I’m not privy to what they are,” Hoyos said.

But perhaps the more likely theory, based on Manafort’s history, is that Manafort is misleading his lawyer and the court. After all, the special counsel successfully fought to compel Manafort’s former attorney to testify before a grand jury, using the testimony to charge Manafort with lying to the federal government about his work for Ukraine.

Downing did not respond to multiple requests for comment this week. A spokesman for the special counsel declined to comment on whether prosecutors were under the impression that Manafort is still working with Hoyos Integrity, or whether they were aware of the name of the company Manafort’s lawyer was referring to (if one exists). 

Manafort owns a home about an hour north of Fort Lauderdale, in Palm Beach Gardens. Manafort’s team, which offered up the property as part of his bail package, claimed it was worth $1.5 million, while the special counsel team thinks it is worth closer to $1.25 million.

At the court hearing on Monday, a lawyer for the special counsel team said they believed they were “getting close” to reaching a bail agreement with Manafort’s team, but would need a bit more time. The special counsel team believes that Manafort’s team is overvaluing Manafort’s Trump Tower condo, which Manafort’s team claims is worth $6 million. The special counsel team found estimates that said it’s worth less than $3 million. Manafort and his wife, as it happens, have a $3 million mortgage on the condo, so it’s possible the property itself is worth less than the mortgage on it.

Hoyos, whose daughter is Manafort’s godchild, publicly revealed that he had cut business ties with Manafort long before the court appearance on Monday. Hoyos spoke with The New York Times for a story published after Manafort’s indictment last week in which he said Manafort was “sad” when Hoyos said they had to end their business relationship. Hoyos said Manafort apologized to him for creating problems.

Hoyos told HuffPost he’d be friends with Manafort “in good times and bad times” ― but business, he said, is a different story.

“One tries to keep friendship and business separate,” Hoyos said. “The reality is that things one has to do in business affect the friendship.”

&&&&&

+++++

Paul Manafort Has A Side Hustle Developing Secure, ‘Virtually Indestructible’ Cell Phones

2017-11-08

WASHINGTON ― A former Donald Trump campaign manager facing a plethora of federal charges for allegedly laundering millions of dollars from overseas has a mysterious side hustle: He’s involved with a telecommunications company developing secure, “virtually indestructible” cell phones.

The news about Paul Manafort’s affiliation with an unnamed telecommunications company briefly came up in a court hearing on Monday. Manafort was arrested last week after a grand jury run by special counsel Robert Mueller, who is investigating alleged Russian interference in the 2016 election, indicted Manafort and former business associate Rick Gates on 12 federal charges. Both men currently remain on house arrest with GPS monitors on their ankles as they try to reach a deal with the government that could relax some of the conditions of their pretrial release.

Manafort’s work as a lobbyist for foreign governments was well known, and Manafort attorney Kevin Downing described him at the Monday hearing as an “international consultant” who worked on campaigns and overseas investing and had a lot of clients in New York City. The news that he also does some work in tech came up after Downing mentioned that Manafort did a “bit of work down in Florida” and that he’s “got a business down in Fort Lauderdale.” That piqued U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson’s curiosity. “What’s the business?” she asked.

“It’s a telecommunications business,” Downing replied. “It’s developing secure cell phones, and it also does make them relatively or virtually indestructible.”

Downing did not respond to HuffPost’s questions about the telecommunications business on Monday or Tuesday, and Judge Jackson issued a gag order on Wednesday that restricts attorneys’ comments to the media. (Jackson had admonished Downing after he spoke to cameras outside the courthouse after Manfort’s first court appearance.)

HuffPost has tried to find out more about the business. We’ve searched Florida business records, Fort Lauderdale tax records, poked around job boards and checked the transcript of Manafort’s hearing to make sure we didn’t miss any clues. But so far, we’ve come up short. (Do you know more? Email ryan.reilly@huffpost.com.)

Beyond the name of the company, the extent of Manafort’s role is unclear. Getting involved with a tech company seems like an odd career move for the 68-year-old lobbyist. But a look at his recent history sheds some light on why he might be intrigued by a business opportunity in secure tech.

Manafort reportedly used “bond007” as a password for online accounts. His daughter’s text messages were hacked and released on the dark web. Those text messages revealed that Manafort reportedly claimed he had been hacked. “Russians literally hack his phones,” she wrote in one 2015 text.

The special counsel also alleged that Manafort registered a cell phone under an alias in March and used it on trips overseas, but Manafort’s legal team said that his use of his brother’s name was “blown out of proportion” and that he was just “attempting to maintain confidentiality of communications” given the “high-profile nature” of some of his clients.

“Indeed, it is common practice for many U.S. citizens who travel abroad on business and pleasure to defend themselves against potential hacking, and confiscation, of their electronic devices and data,” his attorneys wrote.

Manafort claims Florida as his home state, and owns a property in Palm Beach Gardens, which is about an hour north of Fort Lauderdale, where the company is apparently based. (Manafort’s team offered up that Palm Beach Gardens home up as part of a bail package, claiming it is worth about $1.5 million. The government says it’s more like $1.25 million.) 

According to a Miami-Herald report, Fort Lauderdale was named second on a CBRE Group list of “tech talent momentum markets,” which is meant to measure changes in tech job growth.


&&&&&

+++++

Jeff Sessions’ DOJ Drops Prosecution Of Woman Who Laughed At Jeff Sessions

2017-11-07

WASHINGTON ― Justice Department prosecutors have dropped their case against a woman who laughed at now-Attorney General Jeff Sessions during his confirmation hearing. Desiree Fairooz was scheduled to face trial for a second time next week, but a DOJ prosecutor entered a nolle prosequi filing in the case on Monday indicating the department is dismissing the charges.  

Fairooz, a retired children’s librarian and demonstrator affiliated with the organization Code Pink, let out a laugh during a Senate hearing back in January after Sen. Richard Shelby (R-Ala.) said Sessions had a “clear and well-documented” record of “treating all Americans equally under the law.” (Sessions had faced strong opposition from civil rights organizations and was rejected as a federal judge in the 1980s over concerns about his past comments on race.)

A rookie Capitol Police officer fresh out of the academy who had never made an arrest before nor covered a congressional hearing decided to take Fairooz into custody. Fairooz loudly objected. The U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia, which prosecutes cases in both federal court and local D.C. Superior Court, pressed two charges against her.

Fairooz was convicted at a jury trial in May, with members of the jury telling HuffPost that they were focused on her conduct as she was being led out of the courtroom after her arrest.

“She did not get convicted for laughing. It was her actions as she was being asked to leave,” the jury foreperson told HuffPost after the verdict.

But a judge tossed out the jury’s conviction in July, finding that prosecutors had improperly argued during the trial that “laughter is enough, standing alone,” to merit a conviction. D.C. Superior Court Chief Judge Robert Morin said he found it “disconcerting” that the government had explicitly argued during the trial that laughter in and of itself was enough for a guilty verdict. 

After Fairooz rejected a plea deal in which she would have pleaded guilty in exchange for a recommendation of time served, a prosecutor indicated at a hearing in September that the government planned to put her on trial yet again. This week, they reversed course. Fairooz said she was relieved. 

“The last 10 months of my life have been somewhat stressful facing trial and the possibility of jail time and a criminal conviction for a chortle so I am greatly relieved that I will not stand trial again,” Fairooz told HuffPost in a statement. “As activists, we cannot be deterred from speaking out against injustice, standing up for our constitutional rights and yes, laughing.”

A spokeswoman for the attorney general declined to comment. A spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia said the office does not typically discuss decisions about charges and had no comment on the decision to dismiss the case against Fairooz. 


COURT FIING
Taking Fairooz to trial for a second time would have put prosecutors in a bit of an uncomfortable spot. In tossing out the jury’s verdict, Judge Morin made clear that the government could not argue that laughter was enough to support a charge. That essentially meant that the government would be forced to concede as part of the case against Fairooz that Capitol Hill Police Officer Katherine Coronado was wrong to place Fairooz under arrest, but that Fairooz should face charges because she loudly objected to her wrongful arrest and made political statements as she was being escorted from the room.

News of Fairooz’s prosecution went viral after it was first reported by HuffPost. The story sparked jokes by late-night comedians and attracted the attention of Rep. John Conyers (D-Mich.), who believed there were substantial questions about the application of the law in her case.

&&&&&

+++++

Mueller Team Says Paul Manafort’s Trump Tower Condo Isn’t Worth As Much As He Claims

2017-11-06

WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump probably doesn’t need another reason to be upset over the special counsel investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election, which has already swept up at least three members of his campaign. Here’s one anyway: Prosecutors working for Robert Mueller say a Trump Tower condo owned by Trump’s former campaign manager, Paul Manafort, isn’t worth nearly as much as Manafort claims.

In a court filing on Saturday, Manafort offered up a Trump Tower condo with an “approximate net asset value” of $3 million as collateral in a $12 million bail package he proposes to get himself off house arrest as he awaits trial. 

But Mueller’s team thinks Manafort’s numbers are off. Prosecutors say the defense team is greatly overestimating the value of a condo in the Manhattan building named after the president, and aren’t even sure Manafort has any equity in his Trump Tower property.

Manafort’s lawyers reportedly told prosecutors that the $3 million net asset value was “based on a fair market value of $6 million, reduced by a $3 million mortgage on the property.” But that $6 million estimate isn’t backed by an appraisal, or even by “open source estimates” that Mueller’s team could find.

“Manafort provided the government with an open source estimate for a different unit in the building, listed as approximately $4.5 million, which Manafort believes is below the fair market value of his own unit, which is on a higher floor,” prosecutors wrote. “Meanwhile, the government has searched open source real estate value estimators and found one that lists the value of Manafort’s own unit as $2.5 million, and another that lists the value as $2.7 million.”


DREW ANGERER VIA GETTY IMAGES
Manafort, who surrendered to the FBI on Monday on a 12-count indictment that potentially exposes him to decades in prison, is due to appear before a federal judge on Monday to work out conditions for his release. U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson indicated in court last week that she’ll consider allowing Manafort to leave his home, but seemed hesitant to remove his electronic monitoring because she believes he’s a flight risk.

With the value of Manafort’s Trump Tower unit under dispute, the court filings suggest that federal prosecutors and the former Trump campaign manager’s attorneys may spend part of Monday’s hearing arguing over the value of a condo in the building, where the president also maintains a home. 

Manafort bought the Trump Tower unit for more than $3.6 million back in 2006 through a limited-liability company called John Hannah, which according to NBC News combined his middle name with the middle name of his former business partner Rick Davis. The deed was transferred to Paul Manafort and his wife in 2015, and the couple took out a $3 million mortgage on the property. If the condo is now worth only $2.5 million, it may mean Manafort is underwater, meaning he owes more on the property than it’s worth.

Without an independent appraisal, prosecutors said they can’t agree the property can be used as part of Manafort’s bail package.

HuffPost asked a spokesman for the special counsel whether prosecutors believed the value of Manafort’s Trump Tower condo had dropped in recent years due to the president’s polarizing influence. The spokesman declined to comment, or to elaborate on the “open source real estate value estimators” they consulted. Zillow, one such estimator, values Manafort’s condo at $2.5 million ― matching a figure prosecutors used in their response to Manafort’s bail proposal. 

The value of properties in Trump Tower appears to have declined since Trump’s election. In October 2016, The New York Times spoke with a broker of a Trump Tower apartment listed for $2.195 million, which at the time had been on the market for more than nine months. More than a year later, the property was listed at $1.9 million. Another Trump Tower condo reportedly listed for $2.99 million ultimately sold this year for $1.9 million. Earlier this year, Town & Country ran a story headlined, “Nobody Is Buying Apartments In Trump Tower,” which said there were a “staggering” number of units available in the building.

One real estate agent who researched the value of Manafort’s property told HuffPost there was “no way” the unit was worth as much as Manafort’s lawyers claimed. At most, the value might be around $3.8 million, roughly what Manafort paid for it back in 2006. “I have trouble believing an appraiser would value the property anywhere close to $6 million,” the agent said.


&&&&&

+++++

Paul Manafort Offers Up Trump Tower Apartment In Bid To Get Off House Arrest

2017-11-04

WASHINGTON ― Attorneys for former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort told a federal judge on Saturday that he’s not “akin to a 68-year-old ‘Jason Bourne’ character” despite his possession of three passports.

Manafort is set to appear in court again on Monday morning for a hearing on the conditions of his release following his arrest last week on 12 federal counts, including conspiracy and money laundering. He and his business associate Rick Gates have pleaded not guilty to the charges brought forward by special counsel Robert Mueller, who is investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election. 

U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson said at Manafort’s second court hearing on Thursday that she was concerned that he posed a flight risk. In a court filing on Saturday, Manafort’s lawyers assured the judge that the reason he had three passports was “mundane”: He has a primary passport, a second passport to submit with visa applications to certain foreign countries, and a third that he applied for after he lost his primary passport, which he later found.

Manafort’s “frequent flyer status,” lawyer Kevin Downing wrote, “should not be over-emphasized to show a potential risk of flight when a person’s job requires extensive travel.” He said that Manafort was just a “successful domestic and international political consultant” who “traveled frequently and represented businessmen, political parties, and commercial interests around the world,” activities that were “completely” legal.

“It would be odd, indeed, if he did not frequently travel, both domestically and abroad, given his clientele and the nature of his business,” Downing wrote.

He also noted that Manafort has been married for almost 40 years and has two daughters and two grandchildren in the U.S. He said that his client’s primary assets are also in the United States. 

One of the charges that Manafort is facing relates to his alleged failure to register under the Foreign Agents Registration Act, which requires lobbyists to disclose when they’re working on behalf of a foreign principal. Downing, not incorrectly, said that particular charge was “rarely pursued (or successfully prosecuted) in a criminal case.”

Manafort is currently on house arrest under electronic monitoring and a $10 million unsecured bond. He’s seeking less onerous conditions of release. To guarantee his future court appearances, his attorney said Manafort would be willing to pledge a $3 million Trump Tower apartment in New York City, another $3.5 million home in New York, a $1.5 million home in Palm Beach, Florida, and a “combination of life insurance policies held in trust and/or in his or his wife’s name” and valued at approximately $4.5 million ― for a total of more than $12 million.

Although Manafort has not yet reached an agreement with prosecutors over the conditions of his release, his lawyers wrote that he would agree to limit his travel to Florida, Virginia, New York and Washington, D.C. Prosecutors with Mueller’s office are expected to file their response to the Manafort filing on Sunday.

On Thursday, Jackson seemed open to lifting Manafort’s house arrest but skeptical of removing his electronic monitoring.


&&&&&

+++++

Donald Trump Wants To Weaponize Justice Department Against Hillary Clinton Yet Again

2017-11-03

President Donald Trump kicked off his Friday by ranting about Democrats on Twitter and calling, once again, on the Justice Department to investigate his former presidential opponent, Hillary Clinton.

In a flurry of tweets insulting several prominent Democrats, Trump claimed, citing no evidence, that “everybody” is questioning why the FBI and Justice Department haven’t yet looked into “dishonesty going on” with Clinton and the Democratic National Committee.

Trump attempted to bolster his argument by mentioning former interim DNC chair Donna Brazile’s recent accusations that Clinton had gained control of the committee during the 2016 election well before becoming the party’s nominee.

Brazile wasn’t having it, tweeting that Trump was misquoting her.

Trump also managed to simultaneously cite and insult Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), who said on Thursday that she believed the Democratic nomination had been rigged, by once again referring to her as “Pocahontas.”

Warren quickly responded in a series of tweets.

Hours after dubbing Sanders “Crazy Bernie,” Trump also attempted to appeal to Sanders supporters by tweeting that they had “every right to be apoplectic” over what he called “the complete theft of the Dem primary.”

Sanders responded by telling Trump to do his job.

Throughout his presidency, Trump has repeatedly blurred the traditional lines between the Justice Department and the White House. Past presidents typically avoided speaking out about ongoing criminal cases, and it would have been a major scandal if one of them had suggested that the Justice Department investigate a political opponent. Trump just tweets it out.

Trump has also undermined his own attorney general and deputy attorney general, both of whom he has blamed for the special counsel investigation into his campaign’s possible links to Russian interference with the 2016 election.

&&&&&

+++++

Trump’s Justice Department Wants ACLU Lawyers Disciplined In Jane Doe Undocumented Teen Abortion Case

2017-11-03

WASHINGTON ― The Trump administration asked the Supreme Court on Friday to take up a case involving an undocumented teen who received an abortion, urging the high court to toss an appeals court ruling that allowed the procedure and to consider disciplining American Civil Liberties Union lawyers who represented the girl.

The Justice Department’s lengthy filing indicates the administration planned to seek Supreme Court intervention before the teen, known the court case by the pseudonym Jane Doe, received her Oct. 25 abortion after month of delay by U.S. authorities. The filing alleges the girl’s ACLU lawyers misled the government about the timing of the abortion.

“After informing Justice Department attorneys that the procedure would occur on October 26th, Jane Doe’s attorneys scheduled the abortion for the early morning hours of October 25th, thereby thwarting Supreme Court review,” DOJ spokesman Devin O’Malley said in a statement. “In light of that, the Justice Department believes the judgment under review should be vacated, and discipline may be warranted against Jane Doe’s attorneys.”

The ACLU said called the allegation “baseless.” The group’s legal director, David Cole, said the lawyers were working in the best interests of their client. 

“That government lawyers failed to seek judicial review quickly enough is their fault, not ours,” Cole said in a statement. “We won’t let this distract us from the real issue here, which is that there are many more young women like Jane Doe out there who are still unable to get the care they need because of the Trump administration’s unconstitutional policies. We will not stop fighting until we have justice for every young woman like Jane.”

The 17-year-old Jane Doe had an abortion last week after a ruling by a federal appeals court. But that didn’t end the legal battle. The federal government argued that it was within its rights to block unaccompanied minors in its custody from leaving shelters for abortions, a problem that goes far beyond fighting in court to extend one teen’s unwanted pregnancy. The lawsuit could have major abortion-rights implications for for both undocumented immigrant minors and other pregnant women in government custody.

In the Jane Doe case, a Department of Justice attorney argued that the government was not blocking the teen from getting an abortion because she was free to return to her home country or could be released to a sponsor in the U.S. ― two infeasible options, according to her attorney. Abortion is illegal in Jane Doe’s native country, and leaving the U.S. would prevent her from making a legal case to stay in the U.S. The government had not found her a sponsor to take her in.

The Office of Refugee Resettlement, which has custody of Jane Doe, for a month blocked her from going to an abortion clinic after she received permission from a Texas judge to make her own decision about terminating her pregnancy, and sent her to a “crisis pregnancy center” to discourage her.

The government’s attorney said the Office of Refugee Resettlement could not be required to “facilitate” Jane Doe’s abortion, which she defined as granting permission for the procedure and care afterward. Jane Doe all along had planned to pay for her own abortion and arranged transportation to and from appointments.

The government’s argument also could be applied to any other pregnant unaccompanied minor in Office of Refugee Resettlement custody, and there’s every indication they would be treated the same was as Jane Doe. The agency is led by director Scott Lloyd, a former attorney for the Knights of Columbus and ardent opponent of abortion.

Under Lloyd’s leadership, the office instituted a policy that requires him or a designee to sign off on any abortions for immigrant minors in the agency’s custody. This is a switch from previous policy, in which directors were involved in abortion decisions only to approve that government funds be used in cases of rape, incest and threats to the life of the mother.

Lloyd reportedly said he would allow pregnant immigrant minors to leave Office of Refugee Resettlement shelters only for “pregnancy services and life-affirming options counseling.” He and other officials have personally spoken to pregnant teens in custody to discourage them from abortions, according to the ACLU. Lloyd refused to give a yes or no answer to a congresswoman who asked last week whether he had done so.

The Trump administration argued in court filings that it has “strong and constitutionally legitimate interests in promoting childbirth, in refusing to facilitate abortion, and in not providing incentives for pregnant minors to illegally cross the border to obtain elective abortions while in federal custody.”

Although the lawsuit and administration policy has thus far only applied to immigrant minors in Office of Refugee Resettlement custody, the arguments about facilitation also could affect other women detained by the federal government, such as those in prison or in Immigration and Customs Enforcement detention. The Department of Justice attorney acknowledged that those women are now allowed to obtain abortions and are cared for after doing so ― the same two things she said were “facilitation” for the Office of Refugee Resettlement ― but she did not argue against those policies.

DOJ’s filing on Friday said the government had “asked to be kept informed of the timing of Ms. Doe’s abortion procedure, and one of respondent’s counsel agreed to do so.” The government told the Supreme Court clerk’s office and the ACLU attorneys that it planned to file an application seeking a stay the next morning. Because of that notice, the government alleges, the ACLU moved to expedite Jane Doe’s abortion.

“Although Ms. Doe’s representatives informed the  government of the change in timing, they did not inform the government of the other two developments—which kept the government in the dark about when Ms. Doe was scheduled to have an abortion,” the government filing says. “The government recognizes that respondent’s counsel have a duty to zealously advocate on behalf of their client, but they also have duties to this Court and to the Bar. It appears under the circumstances that those duties may have been violated, and that disciplinary action may therefore be warranted. At the least, this Court may wish to seek an explanation from counsel regarding this highly unusual chain of events.”


&&&&&

+++++

Trump’s Gitmo Comment Was Misinformed At Best, A Dog Whistle At Worse

2017-11-02

President Donald Trump said he wanted to send Sayfullo Saipov, the man arrested for a deadly terror attack in New York City, to Guantanamo.

For years, Trump has wanted to send terrorists to the U.S. military detention facility in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. He’s tweeted about it, spoken about it in interviews and promoted the idea on the campaign trail.

So after a green card holder inspired by the self-described Islamic State drove a truck through a Manhattan bike lane, killing eight people, it wasn’t a huge surprise that Trump told reporters he’d consider sending the attacker to Gitmo; after all, it serves his anti-Muslim agenda.

But within 24 hours, Trump retreated. “Would love to send the NYC terrorist to Guantanamo,” Trump tweeted, “but statistically that process takes much longer than going through the Federal system.” 

It would indeed take longer. No one has been sent to Guantanamo in nine years; doing so would set off a legal battle. And setting aside the question of whether sending a legal permanent resident arrested in the United States to Guantanamo would even be legal, it would undoubtedly take much, much longer to secure justice for the victims’ families.

Nonetheless, the president’s tweet is a noteworthy reversal, and came a day after he called civilian terror trials a “joke” and a “laughingstock.” 

Trump has opposed bringing the men currently imprisoned in Guantanamo to New York City to face trial in federal court, writing in 2012 that bringing the Sept. 11 trial to the city would have been worse than the slow military proceedings in Guantanamo. (Five years later, the Sept. 11 trial still hasn’t begun, and a separate military trial went off the rails this week, with a judge finding a Marine general in charge of the defense guilty of contempt.)

But on Thursday, Trump wrote that maybe there was “something appropriate” about putting Saipov on trial in New York City.

The last time a new detainee arrived in Guantanamo was nearly a decade ago, in 2008. The Obama administration, which wanted to shut down the detention facility, significantly lowered the inmate population there. 

The Center for Constitutional Rights, which has represented detainees at Guantanamo, issued a statement on Wednesday calling the facility “a prison exclusively for Muslims” and calling Trump’s suggestion to send Saipov there “idiotic.” 

“Fifteen years has proven no one will ever be successfully tried or ‘brought to justice’ at Guantanamo, and the president and his supporters within his own party are deluded if they believe otherwise,” the statement said.

Shayana Kadidal of the Center for Constitutional Rights told HuffPost on Thursday that there was “no rational reason” to send Saipov to Guantanamo, but that Trump was trying to send a message to his supporters that “Muslims who commit terrorist attacks are somehow less human and don’t deserve a fair trial.”

Trump’s initial desire to send Saipov to Guantanamo shows “how far the mistreatment of Muslims can go,” said Dr. Maha Hilal of the Institute for Policy Studies in Washington, D.C.

“The fact that he is a Muslim is absolutely a deciding factor of whether or not he is sent to Guantanamo. Guantanamo, in the context of the war on terror, was built to house an entirely Muslim population,“Hilal said. 

The Justice Department charged Saipov in New York federal court on Wednesday evening. The case against him, laid out in an FBI agent’s affidavit, is a legal slam dunk: There’s a mountain of evidence. He was caught red-handed. He waived his rights and confessed. He allegedly even asked to hang an ISIS flag in his hospital room. There’s effectively zero doubt Saipov will be convicted. The Trump administration will likely seek the death penalty, and they’ll very likely secure it. 

Sending Saipov to Guantanamo, on the other hand, would have kicked off a massive legal battle. Convicting him though the military commissions process could have taken years. Then there’d be the appeals process.

Still, in a speech in New York on Thursday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions said the Trump administration would “use all lawful tools at our disposal, including prosecution in [federal] courts and at Guantanamo Bay.”


&&&&&

+++++

Judge Worries Paul Manafort Is A Flight Risk, Admonishes His Lawyer

2017-11-02

WASHINGTON ― The federal judge who will oversee the prosecution of President Donald Trump’s former campaign manager said Thursday that she has “concerns” that Paul Manafort poses a flight risk, questioning whether an unsecured bond was enough to make sure he’d show up in court.

U.S. District Court Judge Amy Berman Jackson also admonished Manafort’s attorney Kevin Downing for his statement to the media outside the courthouse following Manafort’s first court appearance on Monday morning.

“This is a criminal trial,” Jackson said. “It’s not a public relations campaign.” Lawyers, she said, should make their arguments in court “not on the courthouse steps.”

Jackson said she was considering issuing a gag order in the case under a rule allowing such an order to be put in place in widely publicized trials. 

The appearances of Manafort and his associate Richard Gates in court on Thursday focused on the conditions of their release. Both had initially been released on multimillion-dollar unsecured bonds, meaning they would only have to pay up if they skip out.

Jackson indicated on Thursday that something more may be required, saying she was “very concerned” that an unsecured bond in and of itself was not sufficient. She indicated she was open to lifting the conditions of house arrest, but seemed skeptical of removing the electronic monitoring. 

“I have concerns about flight,” Jackson said.

Jackson did say she would allow Gates to leave his home on Saturday and Sunday to attend his children’s sports games, but she left the house arrest conditions in place until Monday’s hearing. 

Manafort’s lawyer proposed a trial set for April 2018, but the judge wasn’t quite ready to commit to a schedule.

Manafort and Gates pleaded not guilty this past Monday. Both were charged by special counsel Robert Mueller, who is investigating Russian interference with the 2016 election. 



&&&&&

+++++

The Feds Say These ‘Crusaders’ Wanted To Murder Muslim Immigrants In Terror Attack. Here’s What Their Bomb Would’ve Done.

2017-11-01

WASHINGTON ― As President Donald Trump derided the way federal courts had handled terrorism cases on Wednesday, federal prosecutors filed court documents illustrating the damage that some of his supporters could have inflicted in a terrorist attack they allegedly plotted against Muslim immigrants in Kansas.

Patrick Stein, Gavin Wright and Curtis Allen were arrested a little over a year ago in an FBI sting. The trio, allegedly part of a domestic terrorist group called “the Crusaders,” was charged with plotting a terrorist attack against Muslim immigrants for the day after the presidential election that they hoped would “wake people up.” They allegedly amassed a huge stockpile of weapons and prepared bombs they’d use in an attack targeting an apartment complex that housed Muslim immigrants.

“The only good Muslim is a dead Muslim,” Stein allegedly said during one meeting. “If you’re a Muslim I’m going to enjoy shooting you in the head.” 

All three are awaiting trial. Last month, a federal judge ruled that one of the men who had requested bail was a “strong threat to society” and a “danger to the community” and should be kept in custody until trial. 

An attorney for Wright said that the group “feared that then-President Obama would declare martial law if Donald Trump won the election” and that “massive social unrest would occur” no matter who won. 

Federal prosecutors indicated in a court filing on Wednesday that the FBI’s Laboratory’s Explosives Unit had constructed and set off a 300-pound car bomb using fertilizer to show the damage that the bomb the men were allegedly building could have created. Here’s the setup:

The bomb left a “crater of approximately seven feet by five feet wide and eighteen inches deep,” and the bomb had a thermal impact of around 100 feet, the federal prosecutors said. Fragments from the blast were found up to 870 feet away.

&&&&&

